PITTSFIELD, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-24 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1732, passed 5-7-24; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
#1
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF
PITTSFIELD, ILLINOIS
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Bill Grimsley Robert Ritchart
Kevin Ketchum Beth White
Paul Lennon   Robert Wilson
Chris Little  Kevin Wombles
              
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
MAYOR         Gary Mendenhall
TREASURER     Stacey Helms
CITY ATTORNEY Keisha Morris
CITY CLERK    Ann Moffit
POLICE CHIEF  Michael Starman
FIRE CHIEF    Jason White
 
City of Pittsfield
215 North Monroe Street
Pittsfield, IL 62363
Phone No.: 217-285-4484         Fax No.: 217-285-4485
Website: pittsfieldil.org         Email: amoffit@pittsfield.org
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1285
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF PITTSFIELD, ILLINOIS AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2003 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
city; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Illinois Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an earlier date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PITTSFIELD:
   Section 1. That the 2003 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Pittsfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Pittsfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Pittsfield this 19th
day of August, 2003.
    /s/
   Larry Snyder
   Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Cindy M. Prentice
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1306
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF PITTSFIELD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Pittsfield; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
PITTSFIELD:
   Section 1. That the 2004 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Pittsfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Pittsfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Pittsfield on
this 2nd day of November, 2004.
   /s/
   Larry Snyder
   Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Cindy M. Prentice
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1376
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF PITTSFIELD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2008 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Pittsfield; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
PITTSFIELD:
   Section 1. That the 2008 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Pittsfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Pittsfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Pittsfield on
this 15th day of April, 2008.
   /s/
   John Hayden
   Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Cindy M. Prentice
City Clerk
First Reading      April 15, 2008
Second Reading   May 6, 2008
Passage      May 6, 2008
Approval      May 6, 2008
ORDINANCE NO. 1523
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF PITTSFIELD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2014 S-16 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Pittsfield; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
PITTSFIELD:
   Section 1. That the 2014 S-16 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Pittsfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Pittsfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Pittsfield on
this 5th day of August, 2014.
                                             /s/
                                             John Hayden
                                             Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Cindy M. Prentice
City Clerk
First Reading      August 5, 2014
Second Reading   August 19, 2014
Passage      August 19, 2014
Approval      August 19, 2014
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1639
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF PITTSFIELD, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-19 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Pittsfield; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
PITTSFIELD:
   Section 1. That the 2019 S-19 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Pittsfield as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Pittsfield is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Pittsfield on
this 6th day of August, 2019.
                                             John Hayden /s/
                                             Mayor
Attest:
Cindy M. Prentice  /s/
City Clerk
First Reading      August 6, 2019
Second Reading   August 6, 2019
Passage      August 6, 2019
Approval      August 6, 2019
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Pittsfield shall be designated as
the Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Pittsfield,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Pittsfield.
   COUNTY. Pike County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Pike County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Pittsfield.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associa- tions, partnerships,
corporations, joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Pittsfield. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as police officers.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the constitution
of the state of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The state of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the constitution of the state of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. May include printing, electronic, and any other mode
of representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person
is required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
it shall be (1) the proper handwriting of such person or, in case he is unable
to write, his proper mark or (2) an electronic signature as defined in the
Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be insti- tuted, continued, or
enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the
ordinance had not been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amend- ment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re- adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regula-tions
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85). An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute
for further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1974 and subsequently amended, the 1974
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “('74 Code, §      ).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Violations of this code shall be triable as civil
cases whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
the code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, where no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750.
Each day that any willful violation of any provision of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. In lieu of proceeding under any provision of this
code for a civil penalty as provided in division (B), in the discretion of the
City Attorney, violations of the provisions of this code may be prosecuted in
the Circuit Court by informa-tion or by complaint sworn to as criminal
offenses. Such prosecutions shall conform to the rules of criminal procedure,
and the charge shall give notice that it is a criminal proceeding. Upon
conviction, a person violating this code shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $75 nor more than $750.
('74 Code, 1-8) (Ord. 1049, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1148, passed 12-20-94)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
   
11.02   Wards
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall contain the words “City of
Pittsfield, Pike County, Illinois,” forming a circle with the words “Corporate
Seal, 1893” within the circle.
   (B)   The city seal shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk and all
official acts of the city by the Clerk shall be attested by the city seal.
(`74 Code, § 2-1)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   The city shall be redistricted into four wards as follows:
   (A)   Ward One. Ward One is hereby designated as all of the territory north
of Washington Street and east of the line extending from the intersection of
Washington Street and North Madison Street, northerly to the intersection of
Benson Street and North Madison Street, thence westerly to the intersection of
Benson Street and Mill Street (North Memorial Street), thence northerly along
Mill Street to the intersection of Mill Street and Dutton Street, thence
northerly along Dutton Street to the corporate limits.
   (B)   Ward Two. Ward Two is hereby designated as all of the territory north
of Washington Street and North Madison Street, northerly to the intersection of
Benson Street and North Madison Street, thence westerly to the intersection of
Benson Street and Mill Street (North Memorial Street), thence northerly along
Mill Street to the intersection of Mill Street and Dutton Street, thence
northerly along Dutton Street to the corporate limits.
   (C)   Ward Three. Ward Three is hereby designated as all of the territory
south of Washington Street and west of the line extending from the intersection
of Washington Street and Archer Street, southerly to the intersection of Archer
Street and Fayette Street, thence easterly to the intersection of Fayette
Street and Mason Street, thence southerly to the intersection of Mason Street
and West Grant Street, thence easterly to the intersection of Grant Street and
Walnut Street, thence southerly along South Walnut Street to the corporate
limits.
   (D)   Ward Four. Ward Four is hereby designated as all of the territory
south of Washington Street and east of the line extending from the intersection
of Washington Street and Archer Street, southerly to the intersection of Archer
Street and Fayette, thence easterly to the intersection of Fayette Street and
Mason Street, thence southerly to the intersection of Mason Street and West
Grant Street, thence easterly to the intersection of Grant Street and Walnut
Street, thence southerly along South Walnut Street to the corporate limits.
(Ord. 462, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1149, passed 12-6-94; Am. Ord. 1269, passed 9-
3-02)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER LEGISLATIVE BODIES
      
33.   FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
      
34.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
35.   CITY POLICIES
      
36.   SENSITIVE INFORMATION POLICY AND PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Mayor to preside
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   Roll call
   
30.06   Order of business
   
30.07   Ordinances to be numbered; reading of ordinances; publication
   
30.08   Voting
   
30.09   Reconsidering votes
   
30.10   Compensation
   
30.11   Bond
Committees
   
30.20   Standing committees established
   
30.21   Mayor to appoint members
   
30.22   Mayor to be ex officio member
   
30.23   Advisory roles
   
30.24   Reports
   
30.25   Remote attendance at meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at places provided
by the Council, at 6:00 p.m. on the first and third Tuesdays of each month.
When the first or third Tuesday is a public holiday, the Council shall meet at
the same hour on the next day.
   (B)   Adjourned meetings may be held for the purpose of completing the
unfinished business of the regular meetings at time determined by the Council.
(‘74 Code, § 2-15) (Ord. 490, passed 11-10-53; Am. Ord. 528, passed 5-24-55;
Am. Ord. 1349, passed 12-5-06; Am. Ord. 1352, passed 4-3-07; Am. Ord. 1605,
passed 6-19-18)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or by any
two Aldermen by notification to each member of the Council, stating the time,
place, object and purpose of the meeting. No business shall be transacted at
any special meeting except that stated in the call or notice, except with
unanimous consent of all Aldermen present.
('74 Code, § 2-16)
§ 30.03 MAYOR TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, shall preserve
order and decorum and shall decide all questions of order, which decisions
shall be subject to an appeal to the Council.
('74 Code, § 2-17)
§ 30.04 QUORUM.
   A majority of Aldermen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and may compel the
attendance of absentees under the penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
('74 Code, § 2-18)
§ 30.05 ROLL CALL.
   At the hours appointed for meetings of the City Council, the City Clerk
shall call the roll of the members, mark the absentees and announce whether a
quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the Council shall proceed to the
business before it.
('74 Code, § 2-19)
§ 30.06 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business shall be established periodically by the City Council,
and all meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order.
('74 Code, § 2-20)
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES TO BE NUMBERED; READING OF ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Numbering. The City Clerk is authorized to number city ordinances in
numerical order, starting with the first ordinance passed and approved after
the Revised Ordinances of 1894 were adopted and all ordinances of the city
shall bear numbers in their proper numerical order.
('74 Code, § 2-24)
   (B)   Readings. Before any ordinance may be passed by the Council, the
proposed ordinance shall be read at two separate meetings of the Council. The
first and second readings of a proposed ordinances, as required by this
division, shall be at least seven calendar days apart.
('74 Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 484, passed 8-11-53; Am. Ord. 578, passed 9-11-56)
   (C)   Ordaining clause. The ordaining clause of ordinances shall be: “Be it
ordained, by the City Council of Pittsfield.”
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-2)
   (D)   Vote required; method of voting.
      (1)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against the city or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all alderpersons then holding office on the City Council, including
the Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by this code or any other act
governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution, or motion, provided that,
where the City Council consists of an odd number of alderpersons, the vote of
the majority of the council shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance. The
passage of an ordinance, resolution, or motion to sell any school property
shall require the concurrence of three-fourths of all alderpersons then holding
office.
      (2)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage
of the designated ordinances, resolutions, or motions and recorded in the
journal of the City Council. In addition, the City Council at any meeting may
by unanimous consent take a single vote by yeas and nays on the several
questions of the passage of any two or more of the designated ordinances,
orders, resolutions, or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single
group, which single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote,” and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering the names of the alderpersons voting “yea” and of those voting “nay”
on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions, and
motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of such
single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or “consent
agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the requirements
of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect as if the vote
in each case had been taken separately by yeas and nays on the question of the
passage of each ordinance, order, resolution, and motion included in such
omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
      (3)   Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any City Council
member and shall be recorded in the journal.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-40)
   (E)   Approval and disapproval by mayor. All resolutions and motions which
create any liability against the city or which provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money, or to sell any city or school property, and all
ordinances passed by the City Council, shall be deposited with the Clerk.
Except as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 4-1-1 et seq. and 5-1-1 et seq.,
if the Mayor approves of an ordinance or resolution, the Mayor shall sign it.
Those ordinances, resolutions, and motions which he or she disapproves shall be
returned to the City Council, with written objections, at the next regular
meeting of the City Council occurring not less than five days after their
passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any
ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, reso- lution, or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails
to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with written
objections within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the
absence of the Mayor's signature.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-45)
   (F)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   Every resolution and motion specified in division (E) and every
ordinance returned to the City Council by the Mayor shall be reconsidered by
the City Council at the next regular meeting following the regular meeting at
which the City Council receives the Mayor’s written objection. If, after such
reconsideration, two- thirds of all the alderpersons then holding office on the
City Council shall agree at that regular meeting to pass an ordinance,
resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s
veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-50)
      (2)   No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a
special meeting, unless there are present at the special meeting as many
alderpersons as were present when the vote was taken.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-55)
   (G)   Publication requirements; effective date.
      (1)   All ordinances imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or
forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall be printed or published in book
or pamphlet form, published by authority of the City Council, or be published
at least once, within 30 days after passage, in one or more newspapers
published in the city, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or
more newspapers with a general circulation within the city . If there is an
error in printing, the publishing requirement of this section shall be
satisfied if those portions of the ordinance that were erroneously printed are
republished, correctly, within 30 days after the original publication that
contained the error. The fact that an error occurred in publication shall not
affect the effective date of the ordinance so published. If the error in
printing is not corrected within 30 days after the date of the original
publication that contained the error, as provided in the preceding sentence,
the City Council may by ordinance declare the ordinance that was erroneously
published to be nevertheless valid and in effect no sooner than the tenth day
after the date of the original publication, notwithstanding the error in
publication, and shall order the original ordinance to be published once more
within 30 days after the passage of the validating ordinance.
      (2)   Except as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4, no such
ordinance shall take effect until ten days after it is so published. However,
ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the construction of buildings
or any part thereof, or for the development or operation of camps accommodating
persons in house trailers, house cars, cabins, or tents, where such rules and
regulations have been previously printed in book or pamphlet form, may by their
terms provide for the adoption of such rules and regulations or portions
thereof by reference thereto without further printing, or publication, if not
less than one copy of such rules and regulations in book or pamphlet form has
been filed in the office of the Clerk for use and examination by the public at
least thirty days prior to the adoption thereof.
      (3)   All other ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall take effect
upon their passage unless they otherwise provide.
      (4)   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, any
ordinance which contains a statement of its urgency in the preamble or body
thereof, other than an ordinance relating to finance, appropriations, or taxes,
adopted under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-1-1 et seq. may take effect immediately
upon its passage provided that the City Council, by a vote of two-thirds of all
the Aldermen then holding office, so direct. The decision of the City Council
as to the urgency of any ordinance shall not be subject to judicial review
except for an abuse of discretion.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4)
   (H)   Recordation. The Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for
that purpose, all ordinances passed by the City Council. Immediately following
each ordinance the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage and
of the publication or posting, where required, of the ordinance. This record
and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of
the contents, passage, and of the publication or posting of ordinances.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-5)
   (I)   Revision. The Mayor may appoint, by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, one or more competent persons to prepare and submit to the
City Council for adoption or rejection, an ordinance to revise the city
ordinances. The compensation for this revision shall be fixed by the City
Council and paid out of the city treasury.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3)
§ 30.08 VOTING.
   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and on
all propositions to create any liability against the city for the expenditure
or appropriation of its money, and any or all other cases, at the request of
any member of the City Council, which shall be entered upon the journal of the
Council proceedings.
('74 Code, § 2-22)
§ 30.09 RECONSIDERING VOTES.
   No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any
special meeting thereof unless, at the special meeting, there shall be present
as many Aldermen as were present when the original vote was taken.
('74 Code, § 2-23)
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION.
   The Aldermen of the city shall receive as compensation for the respective
services as Aldermen the sum of $1,200 each, per annum, payable quarterly, and
$65 per month expense account. In addition, Aldermen will receive actual
reimbursement for expenses incurred for city business, with prior approval by
the Finance Committee.
('74 Code, § 2-25) (Ord. 981, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-2-84;
Am. Ord. 1075, passed 11-15-88)
§ 30.11 BOND.
   Aldermen of the city are not required to give an official bond.
('74 Code, § 2-26) (Ord. 981, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-2-84;
Am. Ord. 1075, passed 11-15-88)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.20 STANDING COMMITTEES ESTABLISHED.
   The following committees of the City Council, which shall be composed of
three Aldermen each, are hereby established:
   (A)   The Finance and Purchasing Committee.
   (B)   The Gas Committee.
   (C)   The Water Committee.
   (D)   The Wastewater Committee.
   (E)   The Streets, Alleys and Traffic Committee.
   (F)   The Ordinances, Licenses, and Light Committee.
   (G)   The Public Health, Fire and Police Committee.
   (H)   The Economic Development Committee.
('74 Code, § 2-33) (Ord. 526, passed 5-24-55)
§ 30.21 MAYOR TO APPOINT MEMBERS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the members of the standing committees of the City
Council, established in §
30.20, and shall designate the Chairmen thereof.
('74 Code, § 2-34) (Ord. 526, passed 5-24-55)
§ 30.22 MAYOR TO BE EX OFFICIO MEMBER.
   The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of all standing committees of the
City Council.
('74 Code, § 2-35) (Ord. 526, passed 5-24-55)
§ 30.23 ADVISORY ROLES.
   The duties of the various committees of the City Council shall be solely
advisory and investigative as pertains to the particular committee appointed.
('74 Code, § 2-36) (Ord. 526, passed 5-24-55)
§ 30.24 REPORTS.
   Each committee of the City Council, in reporting upon any subject referred
to it, shall attach to its report all papers or documents in the possession of
the committee relative to the matter so referred. Any report of a committee may
be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the
Council, by a majority of the votes of the Aldermen present.
('74 Code, § 2-37)
§ 30.25 REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Rules statement. Any member of the City Council may attend any open or
closed meeting of the City Council via electronic means (such as by telephone,
video or internet connection) provided that such attendance is not otherwise
prohibited and is in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. A member of the city may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The member must notify the Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for remote attendance.
      (2)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the city; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   (C)   Authorization to participate. The Clerk, after receiving the
electronic attendance request, shall inform the city of the request for
electronic attendance. After establishing that there is a quorum physically
present at the meeting where a member of the city desires to attend
electronically, the presiding officer shall state that: (i) a notice was
received by a member of the city in accordance with these rules; and (ii) the
member will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a
motion objecting to the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded, and
approved by two-thirds of the members of the city physically present at the
meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded or if any such motion fails to
achieve the required vote by the members of the city physically present at the
meeting, then the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically
shall be deemed approved by the city and the presiding officer shall declare
the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer,
the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the city must be able to communicate effectively, and
members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting
site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the city shall
provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   (F)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
   (G)   Committees, Boards and Commissions. These rules shall apply to all
Committees, Boards and Commissions established by authority of the city.
   (H)   Participation while driving prohibited. Members permitted to attend a
meeting electronically may not participate while driving unless members are in
compliance with all State driving laws regarding cell phone use.
   (I)   Limited participation rights. Nothing herein shall prohibit an
official who does not meet the prerequisites of division (B) from participating
in the meeting remotely, without voting rights, if the audio or video equipment
is available and a majority of those present do not vote against the
participation. Costs in such circumstances shall not be reimbursable.
(Ord. 1659, passed 7-7-20)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Mayor
   
31.01   Duties
City Clerk
   
31.30   Duties
   
31.31   Appointment of deputy
   
31.32   Bond
   
31.33   Office hours
City Treasurer
   
31.50   Bond
   
31.51   Compensation
   
31.52   Receipt of funds; accounts
   
31.53   Separate accounts for each fund
   
31.54   Receipts
   
31.55   Form and execution of warrants
   
31.56   Warrant register
   
31.57   Personal use of funds
   
31.58   Monthly reports
   
31.59   Annual reports
   
31.60   Special assessment funds
City Attorney
   
31.75   Appointment
   
31.76   Succession procedure
   
31.77   Duties
   
31.78   Records
   
31.79   Reports
   
31.80   Compensation
Compensation
   
31.90   Salaries; bonds
GENERAL PROVISIONS MAYOR
§ 31.01 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the city,
inquire into all reasonable complaints made against them and cause all neglect
or violations of financial duty to be corrected promptly.
('74 Code, § 2-54)
   (B)   In addition to the duties described in division (A) above, the Mayor
shall perform all other duties pertaining to the office as are or may be
required of him or her by this code or other city ordinances.
('74 Code, § 2-55)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.30 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to devote his or her full time
to the operation of the office of Clerk.
('74 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
   (B)   It shall be the Clerk's duty to collect all money due the city for
licenses, for use of waters and sewers, for sales of gas and all taxes.
('74 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
   (C)   The Clerk shall maintain proper records showing the receipt and
disbursement of all funds.
('74 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to maintain records of all meetings
of the City Council and to record the proceedings of the meetings in proper
books provided for that purpose.
('74 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
   (E)   The Clerk shall perform other duties as prescribed by the statutes of
the state.
('74 Code, § 2-62) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
   (F)   The Clerk shall record, in the book kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Council. At the foot of the record of each ordinance
so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of passage and of
the publication of the ordi- nance. The record and memorandum, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the passage and legal
publication of the ordinances for all purposes.
('74 Code, § 2-63)
   (G)   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by the Clerk by this code and shall
attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the city.
('74 Code, § 2-65)
   (H)   The Clerk shall, without delay, upon the adjournment of each meeting
of the Council, deliver to the committees thereto and to the officers of the
city all petitions, communications, reports, reso- lutions, claims and other
papers referred to those committees or officers by the Council. The Clerk also
shall, without delay, deliver to the Mayor all ordinances and resolutions in
his or her custody which may require approval or other action by the Mayor.
('74 Code, § 2-67)
   (I)   The City Clerk shall give each person paying money into the treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
   (J)   In addition to the duties prescribed in divisions (A) through (I)
above, the Clerk shall perform other and further duties pertaining to the
office of Clerk as are or may be imposed by this code or other ordinances.
('74 Code, § 2-68)
§ 31.31 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY.
   A Deputy City Clerk may be appointed from time to time by the City Clerk.
The Deputy shall have the powers of the Clerk during the absence or disability
of the Clerk.
('74 Code, § 2-64)
§ 31.32 BOND.
   The official bond of the City Clerk shall be in the penal sum of $100,000,
conditioned as provided by statute.
('74 Code, § 2-70) (Ord. 981, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-2-84;
Am. Ord. 1075, passed 11-14-88)
§ 31.33 OFFICE HOURS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to maintain an office in quarters
provided therefor by the city. The office shall be open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30
p.m. every day except Saturdays, Sundays and official city holidays.
('74 Code, § 2-66) (Ord. 463, passed 12-9-52)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.50 BOND.
   The official bond of the City Treasurer shall be in the penal sum of
$100,000, as conditioned by statute.
('74 Code, § 2-77) (Ord. 981, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-2-84;
Am. Ord. 1075, passed 11-15-88)
§ 31.51 COMPENSATION.
   The City Treasurer shall receive as compensation for services performed as
Treasurer the sum of $2,900 per annum, payable quarterly, and shall receive no
other compensation for those services.
('74 Code, § 2-76) (Ord. 981, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-2-84;
Am. Ord. 1075, passed 11-15-88)
§ 31.52 RECEIPT OF FUNDS; ACCOUNTS.
   The City Treasurer shall receive all funds belonging to the city and shall
keep books and accounts as prescribed by this code or other city ordinances.
These books and accounts always shall be subject to inspection by any member of
the City Council.
('74 Code, § 2-78)
§ 31.53 SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR EACH FUND.
   The City Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each city fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
('74 Code, § 2-79)
§ 31.54 RECEIPTS.
   The Treasurer also shall file copies of deposit receipts with the City Clerk
at the time of his or her monthly report.
('74 Code, § 2-80)
§ 31.55 FORM AND EXECUTION OF WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer shall be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund or appropriation
to which they are chargeable and the person to whom payable.
('74 Code, § 2-81)
§ 31.56 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The City Treasurer shall keep a register of all city warrants redeemed and
paid. The register shall describe the warrants and show the date, amount,
number, fund from which paid, name of person to whom paid and when the warrant
was paid.
('74 Code, § 2-82)
§ 31.57 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city in his
or her hands separate and distinct from his or her own money.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall not use, either directly or indirectly, city money
or warrants in his or her custody and keeping, for his or her own use and
benefit or that of any other person.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall subject the Treasurer to immediate
removal from office by the City Council, which is hereby authorized to declare
the Treasurer's office vacant, in which case his or her successor shall be
appointed and shall hold office for the remainder of the unexpired term.
('74 Code, § 2-83)
§ 31.58 MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The City Treasurer shall, at the end of each month and more often if
required, render an account under oath to the City Council or officers who may
be designated by ordinance, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
the account and the balance of money in the treasury. The Treasurer also shall
accompany the account with a statement of all money received into the treasury
and on what account paid, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him
or her, which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by the City Clerk, shall
be delivered to the Clerk and filed with his or her account in the Clerk's
office upon every day of settlement. The Treasurer shall return all warrants
paid by him or her marked “paid.”
('74 Code, § 2-84)
§ 31.59 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The City Treasurer shall, before September 1 each year, make out and file
with the City Clerk a full and detailed account of all city receipts and
expenditures and of all transactions made as Treasurer during the preceding
fiscal year. The report shall show in his or her account the state of the city
treasury at the close of the fiscal year, which account the Clerk immediately
shall cause to be published in a newspaper printed in the city.
('74 Code, § 2-85)
§ 31.60 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS.
   All money received on any special assessment shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made. This money shall be used for no other
purpose, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for the improvement.
('74 Code, § 2-86)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.75 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council.
('74 Code, § 2-92) (Ord. 557, passed 2-21-56)
§ 31.76 SUCCESSION PROCEDURE.
   The City Attorney shall deliver to his or her successor in office all books
and papers belonging to the city.
('74 Code, § 2-97)
§ 31.77 DUTIES.
   The duties of the City Attorney shall include the following:
   (A)   Be the legal adviser to the City Council;
   (B)   Draft ordinances as the Council authorizes or at the request of the
Mayor, a Council committee or an Alderman;
   (C)   Draw all leases, deeds, contracts or other legal documents at the
direction of the Mayor or the Council;
   (D)   Advise the Council, the Mayor or other city officials on all matters
of law in which the interests of the city are involved and may, when the
Attorney considers it of sufficient importance, raise questions to be submitted
in writing and, in such cases, his or her answers shall be in writing;
   (E)   Take charge of all actions for violations of the provisions of this
code or other ordinances of the city in the courts in which they are brought
and to which they may be appealed;
   (F)   Institute the prosecution of all violations of the provisions of this
code or other city ordinances when directed by the Mayor, the Council, the
Chief of Police or any other enforcement officer of the city or when any
complaint has been filed with an appropriate court;
   (G)   Prosecute any action arising from violation of the provisions of this
code or other city ordinances or the Illinois Compiled Statutes when, upon
investigation thereof, he or she shall be satisfied the complaint was not
instituted maliciously and is not without probable cause;
   (H)   Prosecute or defend, as the case may be, other cases in which the
interests of the city are involved. Those cases shall be considered beyond the
normal duties of the Attorney;
   (I)   Dismiss suits or proceedings upon terms he or she may deem
appropriate, when he or she considers the public interests will be served
properly. Before dismissal, the proposed action shall be reported to the Mayor
and Council;
   (J)   Be the parliamentarian of and for the Council;
   (K)   Recommend to the Council, from time to time, the passage of ordinances
he or she deems necessary and proper for the safeguard of the public health,
safety and welfare.
('74 Code, § 2-93) (Ord. 557, passed 2-21-56)
§ 31.78 RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall keep, in a book provided by the city
especially for that purpose, a record of all opinions given by him or her to
any city official.
   (B)   The Attorney shall keep in a register provided by the city especially
for that purpose a record of all actions any court prosecuted or defended by
him or her in which the city is a party.
('74 Code, § 2-94) (Ord. 557, passed 2-21-56)
§ 31.79 REPORTS.
   The City Attorney, on or before May 1 of each year and more often if
required by the Mayor or City Council, shall make a written report of all suits
instituted, pending or defended by him or her. In the report, the Attorney
shall state the names of the parties to the suits, the dates of commencement,
the nature thereof, the steps taken to bring them to a final conclusion and
other information he or she may deem proper, to the end that the Mayor and
Council may be kept fully advised as to the legal affairs of the city.
('74 Code, § 2-95) (Ord. 557, passed 2-21-56)
§ 31.80 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The salary of the City Attorney shall be as established from time to
time by the City Council, payable monthly, for all routine work required in
this subchapter. In cases where the litigation would be beyond the normal
duties of the Attorney, the Attorney shall receive extra compensation in an
amount not to exceed that which is to be provided each year in the annual
appropriation ordinance and budget. The extra allowances are to be approved by
the Finance Committee of the Council.
   (B)   For special assessments and bond issues, the Attorney shall receive,
in addition to the salary provided in divisions (A) above, the prevailing
percentage for the particular type of bond issue. The percentage shall be that
which is normal and customary in the date, as found and determined by the
Illinois State Bar Association. The fee shall be included in the administrative
costs of the projects for which bonds are issued.
('74 Code, § 2-96) (Ord. 701, passed 7-17-62; Am. Ord. 797, passed 6-4-68; Am.
Ord. 843, passed 6-1-71)
COMPENSATION
§ 31.90 SALARIES; BONDS.
   (A)   Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor shall receive for his or her compensation for services a
salary of $12,500 per annum, and a $100 per month expense account.
      (2)   The official bond of the Mayor shall be in the penal sum of $3,000,
conditioned as is by statute made and provided.
   (B)   Aldermen.
      (1)   Aldermen shall receive as compensation for their respective
services the sum of $1,200 each, per annum, and a $65 per month expense
account. In addition, Aldermen will receive actual reimbursement for expenses
incurred for city business.
      (2)   Aldermen are not required to give an official bond.
      (3)   Effective May 1, 2022, the salary of the Aldermen shall be
increased to $350, to remain for the remainder of the term.
   (C)   City Clerk.
      (1)   (a)   The City Clerk shall receive as compensation for his or her
services as City Clerk, authorized agent for the state municipal retirement
fund, and ex officio collector of special assessments the annual salary as set
forth in the table below, payable biweekly; in addition thereto, he shall be
entitled to all fees paid to him or her for issuing hunting and fishing
licenses.
 
FISCAL YEAR SALARY
2009-2010   $39,000.00
2010-2011   40,656.00
2011-2012   42,182.40
2012-2013   43,869.70
 
         (b)   Effective May 1, 2013, the salary of the City Clerk shall be
increased 2% compounded annually for the election term.
         (c)   Effective May 1, 2021, the salary of the City Clerk shall
increase by $.50 per hour, based on a 35-hour work week, for a sum of $910
annually for the election term.
      (2)   The official bond of the City Clerk shall be in the penal sum of
$100,000, conditioned as is by statute made and provided.
   (D)   City Treasurer.
      (1)   (a)   The City Treasurer shall receive as compensation for his or
her services the sum of $3,000 per annum, and he or she shall receive no other
compensation for services.
         (b)   Effective May 1, 2013, the salary of the City Treasurer will be
increased by $200 annually for the election term.
         (c)   Effective May 1, 2021, the salary of the City Treasurer will be
increased by $60 annually for the election term.
      (2)   The official bond of the City Treasurer shall be in the penal sum
of $100,000, conditioned as is by statute made and provided.
   (E)   Assumption of duties. All of the officers mentioned in this section
shall take office and assume their duties pursuant Ord. 113, passed 11-17-92.
This provision is made pursuant ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-15.
(Ord. 113, passed 11-17-92; Am. Ord. 1304, passed 9-21-04; Am. Ord. 1391,
passed 10-7-08; Am. Ord. 1477, passed 12-4-12; Am. Ord. 1666, passed 10-6-2020)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS; BOARDS; COMMISSIONS AND OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Chief
   
32.04   Duties and functions of department
   
32.05   Duties and authority of personnel
   
32.06   Part-time police
Parks and Recreation
   
32.30   Park Board created
   
32.31   Ordinances not repealed
Revolving Loan Fund Board
   
32.50   Fund and Board established
   
32.51   Members
   
32.52   Terms; vacancies
   
32.53   Compensation
   
32.54   Removal
   
32.55   Organization; bylaws
   
32.56   Records; reports
   
32.57   Notice of meetings
   
32.58   Personnel; technical consultants
   
32.59   Powers and duties
Planning Commission
   
32.70   Established
   
32.71   Members
   
32.72   Terms
   
32.73   Compensation
   
32.74   Removal
   
32.75   Organization; bylaws
   
32.76   Records and reports
   
32.77   Notice of meetings
   
32.78   Powers and duties
   
32.79   Personnel; technical consultants
   
32.80   Publicity
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee
   
32.90   Scope and purpose
   
32.91   Historic Preservation Advisory Committee
   
32.92   Responsibilities and authority
   
32.93   Surveys and research
Business Loan Fund Board
   
32.100   Creation
   
32.101   Composition
   
32.102   Terms of office; filling vacancies
   
32.103   Compensation of members
   
32.104   Removal of members
   
32.105   Organization; by-laws
   
32.106   Records; reports
   
32.107   Notice of meetings
   
32.108   Personnel; technical consultants
   
32.109   Powers and duties
Regional Water Commission
   
32.120   Established
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department is hereby established as a department of the city.
('74 Code, § 22-16)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and subordinate
police officers and other personnel as the City Council may, from time to time,
prescribe.
('74 Code, § 22-17)
§ 32.03 CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief shall be the executive head of the Police Department.
   (C)   The Chief shall post bond for faithful performance and shall receive
compensation the City Council shall, from time to time, prescribe.
('74 Code, § 22-18) (Ord. 263, passed 7-5-35)
§ 32.04 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, and each member thereof, to
preserve the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of the city and to enforce
all provisions of this code, acting under the general supervision of the Mayor;
to execute and enforce all orders and directions of the Mayor or Council; to
protect citizens in the right, property, safety and lawful enjoyment of life;
to enforce and secure public order and welfare; to prevent obstruction to
public travel and intercourse and preserve and secure to every person his or
her personal liberty and free and lawful association with others.
('74 Code, § 22-19)
§ 32.05 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF PERSONNEL.
   Each member of the Police Department shall have the powers conferred upon
police officers and conservators of peace by law, and the other powers and
duties as may, from time to time, be lawfully provided by the United States or
state law, or by the provisions of this code. Each police officer shall be a
conservator of the peace and aid in the preservation of the public peace and
the observance and enforcement of the provisions of this code and the laws of
the state, including specifically but not limited to ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, §§
107-1 and 108-1 et seq. Each officer shall have the power and authority, within
the city, to serve and execute warrants and other legal processes for the
apprehension and commitment of any person charged with, held for examination or
for trial or taken in the act of committing a crime or misdemeanor or violating
any law or provision of this code.
('74 Code, § 22-20)
§ 32.06 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the Pittsfield Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license; and
      (6)   Possess no felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. Military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment,
and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part-time police
officers shall comply with all applicable rules and General Orders issued by
the Police Department.
(Ord. 1448, passed 2-21-12)
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.30 PARK BOARD CREATED.
   The municipal parks of the city are to be operated by a board known as the
Park Board, consisting of seven members appointed by the Mayor. One of the
members shall be appointed for a one-year term and shall be a member of the
City Council, but such member shall hold office only so long as such person is
a member of the City Council. The terms of the remaining six members of the
Park Board shall be for three years, ending on April 30 in the third year after
appointment or until their successors have been appointed. The terms of two
such members shall expire each year, provided, however, that the Mayor shall
appoint all six other members for terms commencing May 1, 1993, at which time
two members shall be appointed for three-year terms, two members shall be
appointed for two-year terms, and two members shall be appointed for one-year
terms. The number of consecutive terms during which a member may hold the same
office shall be limited to three. Members of the Park Board shall serve without
remuneration.
(Ord. 529, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1111, passed 8-18-92; Am. Ord. 1246, passed 4-
17-01)
§ 32.31 ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
   The provisions of all ordinances establishing and regulating parks in the
city, in effect on the effective date of this code, as expressed by the
adopting ordinance, are hereby saved from repeal and are continued in full
force and effect as if set out at length in this chapter.
('74 Code, § 20-1)
REVOLVING LOAN FUND BOARD
§ 32.50 FUND AND BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board is hereby created as a department of the
city under the authority of state law.
   (B)   The balance of the Economic Development Fund, the Paving Materials
Economic Development Fund, the Joyce Elaine Garments CDAP Fund and the
Pittsfield Machine Tool and Welding CDAP Fund now on deposit or hereafter
deposited in those funds shall be transferred to an account entitled the
Revolving Loan Fund (or “RLF”). Any money deposited in accounts hereafter
established, the sources of which are repayment of Community Development
Assistance Program (CDAP) loans or repayment of funds made from the RLF shall
be transferred to the RLF.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.51 MEMBERS.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall consist of eight members and shall be
composed of the following:
   (A)   Two of the members shall be the following city officers, serving ex
officio:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The City Attorney.
   (B)   One member shall be a member of the City Council and shall be
appointed by the Mayor by and with the approval of the Council.
   (C)   The remaining five members shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with
the approval of the Council. These members shall be appointed on the basis of
their particular fitness or competency for duty on the Board.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.52 TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members of the Revolving Loan Fund Board who are city officers and
serving ex officio shall serve for the term of their respective city offices.
   (B)   Of the six members of the Board initially appointed by the Mayor,
three shall be appointed for a term of one year and three shall be appointed
for a term of two years. Thereafter, the members shall be appointed for terms
of two years.
   (C)   All vacancies occurring on the Board shall be filled by appointed for
the remainder of the unexpired term of office only in the same manner as for
the original appointments.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.53 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Revolving Loan Fund Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.54 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Revolving Loan Fund Board may be removed by the Mayor for
due cause, subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.55 ORGANIZATION; BYLAWS.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall adopt the bylaws regulating the time,
place, and manner of holding its meetings and conducting its business as may,
in the judgment of the board, be proper in carrying out the work of the Board.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.56 RECORDS; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall keep a written record of its
proceedings. These records shall be open to public inspection, when required by
law.
   (B)   The Board shall file an annual report with the City Council setting
forth it transactions and recommendations.
   (C)   In all instances, the Board shall report to the Council.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.57 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall cause notice to be given of its meetings
in such a manner as will comply with state law.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.58 PERSONNEL; TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Board may, upon prior authority from the City
Council, employ necessary personnel whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided by appropriations made by the Council from the
Revolving Loan Fund. If the Board deems it advisable, the Board may employ and
pay for technical consultation services, upon prior authorization thereof from
the Council.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
§ 32.59 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To establish eligibility requirements, loan size limitations, use
restrictions, duration or term of loans, interest rates, loan security/
collateral criteria and job creation criteria with respect to loans from the
city Revolving Loan Fund; provided, no loan may exceed 50% of the available RLF
account balance without the unanimous approval of the Board and City Council.
All guidelines adopted by the Board shall comply with guidelines now in effect
or hereafter amended, as established by the Illinois Department of Commerce and
Community Affairs.
   (B)   To solicit, accept and review loan applications from eligible
businesses.
   (C)   To establish and implement procedures for the screening and review of
loan applications, including but not limited to environmental review
procedures, financial analysis, investigation of matters raised in the
application and meeting with the applicant and/or a representative of the
applicant's financial institution.
   (D)   To prepare and submit to the Council for its consideration a
recommendation for the approval or denial of the loan application in whole or
in part.
   (E)   To exercise the ancillary powers granted by this subchapter as may be
reasonably necessary to accomplish its mission or as may be conferred by the
Council.
(Ord. 1095, passed 4-16-91)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.70 ESTABLISHED.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive community plan for guidance of the development and direction of
the growth of the city and contiguous territory, a Planning Commission is
hereby created as a depart-ment of the city government under the authority of
state law.
('74 Code, § 21-16) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.71 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission established by this subchapter shall consist
of 13 members, three of whom shall be city officials serving ex-officio, the
Mayor and Director of Economic Development, with the power to vote, and the
City Attorney without the power to vote; five of whom shall respectively, be
members of and represent and be appointed by the following groups and
organizations in the city:
      (1)   Aldermen;
      (2)   Chamber of Commerce;
      (3)   Lions Club;
      (4)   Rotary Club; and
      (5)   Pittsfield post of the American Legion, i.e., Post No. 152, the
American Legion, Department of Illinois.
   (B)   The remaining five of whom shall be residents of the city who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council, on the
basis of their particular fitness or competency for their duty on said
Commission. All twelve voting members shall be residents of the city.
(‘74 Code, § 21-17) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55; Am. Ord. 638, passed 7-21-59; Am.
Ord. 1211, passed 11-17-98; Am. Ord. 1496, passed 7-2-13)
§ 32.72 TERMS.
   (A)   Members of the Planning Commission who are city officers serving ex
officio shall serve for the terms of the respective city offices.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission who are not city officers serving
ex officio shall be appointed annually by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
   (C)   Of the three members of the Commission initially appointed by the
Mayor, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, one shall be appointed
for a term of two years and one shall be appointed for a term of three years.
Thereafter, those members shall be appointed for terms of three years.
   (D)   All vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled by
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term of office, only in the same
manner as for the original appointments.
('74 Code, § 21-18) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.73 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such without
compensation.
('74 Code, § 21-19) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.74 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Planning Commission may be removed for due cause by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council.
('74 Code, § 21-20) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.75 ORGANIZATION; BYLAWS.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary and
such other officers of its own membership, and shall adopt bylaws regulating
the time, place, and manner of holding its meetings and conducting its business
as may, in the judgement of the Commission, be proper and necessary in carrying
on the work of the Commission.
('74 Code, § 21-21) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55; Am. Ord. 1211, passed 11-17-98)
§ 32.76 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Planning Commission shall keep a written record of its proceedings. The
record shall be open at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall
file with the City Council an annual report setting forth its transactions and
recommendations. In all instances, the Commission shall report to the Council.
('74 Code, § 21-22) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.77 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall cause notice to be given of its meetings in a
manner that will comply with state law.
('74 Code, § 21-23) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.78 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the followings powers and duties:
   (A)   (1)   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical
or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official
comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of that municipality. This plan may
include reasonable requirements with reference to streets, alleys, public
grounds, and other improvements hereinafter specified. The plan, as recommended
by the plan commission and as there-after adopted may be made applicable, by
the terms thereof, to land situated within the corporate limits and contiguous
territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and
not included in any other municipality.
      (2)   Such plan may be implemented by ordinances:
         (a)   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and
for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelop- ment
in respect to public improvements as herein defined;
         (b)   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment; and
         (c)   May designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality
and the recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation.
   (B)   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time, plans
for specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   (D)   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and, generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   (E)   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities schemes for
regulating or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to
solar energy necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems, as
defined in ILCS Ch. 30, Act 725, § 1.2, the Comprehensive Solar Energy Act of
1977, or to recommend changes in such schemes.
   (F)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, as may be conferred by the City Council.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-5) ('74 Code § 21-24) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.79 PERSONNEL; TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS.
   The Planning Commission may, upon prior authority from the City Council,
employ necessary personnel whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses
shall be provided by appropriations made by the Council from public funds or
other funds available to the Commission. If the Commission deems it advisable,
it may employ and pay for technical consultation services upon the proper
authorization from the Council.
('74 Code, § 21-26) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 32.80 PUBLICITY.
   The Commission may arrange and conduct publicity relative to its authorized
activities for the purpose of public understanding.
(Ord. 1211, passed 11-17-98)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 32.90 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The public interest and well being of a community require that
guidelines and controls be used not to inhibit or constrain improvement, but
rather to shape and channel activity to the benefit of the community. In this
rapidly changing world, the city can meet the needs of the future and provide a
basis for long range planning by identifying, utilizing and developing its
current assets.
   (B)   Some principal assets of the city are the tremendous amount of history
relating to the settlement of this area, the presence of Abraham Lincoln and
other notable dignitaries and the Historic District that is on the National
Register of Historic Places.
   (C)   This subchapter provides a means for protecting, preserving and
perpetuating these qualities and assets and is designed to encourage property
owners to view their property with the character of the community in mind. It
encourages sensitive treatment of the historical qualities of the property by
owners in their choices of materials, procedures and standards of workmanship.
The subchapter provides a framework, the effect of which will be to capitalize
on the major assets of the city, its people, sites and structures, and which
will result in an enrichment of the quality of the community for business,
commerce, residence, education and tourism.
   (D)   The purposes of this subchapter are to provide procedures and
guidelines for the preservation, enhancement and perpetuation of buildings,
areas, places, structures and other objects within the city having historical
significance and to educate the general public in the value of preservation and
conservation and to promote the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use
of improvements of special character or historical interest or value in the
interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city by:
      (1)   Providing a mechanism to identify, preserve, enhance and perpetuate
the historic and architectural characteristics of the city, which represents
elements of the city’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural
history;
      (2)   Fostering civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the
past;
      (3)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of the
city’s landmarks and historic areas;
      (4)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to have
buyers, visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry and providing economic benefit to the city;
      (5)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future city blight;
      (6)   Preserving the existing housing stock.
(Ord. 1223, passed 9-7-99)
§ 32.91 HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation and composition. There is hereby created the City Historic
Preservation Advisory Committee, which shall consist of seven voting members to
be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. All voting members of the Committee shall be residents
of the city. One of the members shall be a member of the Main Street Design
Committee. The remaining members shall be appointed on the basis of experience
or interest in the areas of anthropology, art, architectural history, building
construction, engineering, history, law, finance, historical and architectural
preservation, neighborhood organizing or real estate.
   (C)   Terms. Members of the Committee will be appointed for terms of three
years. The initial members shall serve staggered terms as determined by lots
drawn at the first regular meeting of the Committee, two shall serve for one
year, two shall serve for two years and three shall serve for three years. As
each initial term expires, appointments shall be made for the full three year
term. No members shall serve more than two successive three-year terms.
Alternate members shall be appointed to serve in the absence of or
disqualification of the regular member. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term only. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Organization; officers.
      (1)   Officers shall consist of a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary
elected by the Preservation Committee who shall serve a term of one year and
shall be eligible for re-election, but no members shall serve as an officer for
more than two consecutive years.
      (2)   The Chairman shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chairman, the Vice- Chairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman. If both
are absent, those present shall elect a Temporary Chairman. The Secretary to
the Preservation Committee shall have the following duties:
         (a)   Take minutes of each Preservation Committee meeting.
         (b)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, meeting notices and agendas of the Preservation Committee to
the members of the Committee.
         (c)   Give notice as a provided herein or by law for all public
hearings conducted by the committee.
         (d)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Committee and expiring
terms of members.
         (e)   Prepare and submit to the city a complete record of the
proceeding before the Committee on any matter requiring Council consideration.
         (f)   Keep a record of all proceeding and actions of the Committee.
   (E)   Manner of action.
      (1)   The Committee immediately following their appointment, shall meet,
organize, elect officers and adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business consistent with city ordinances and the laws of the state. Meetings
shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established at the beginning
of the calendar year or at any time upon the call of the Chairman. All meetings
of the Committee shall be open to the public. The Committee shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Committee and shall be a public record.
      (2)   A quorum shall consist of four members. The transaction of business
shall be made by a majority vote of those members in attendance while a quorum
is present, except that the adoption, modification or recision of any rule or
part thereof shall require the affirmative vote of four members. Members shall
be automatically dismissed from the Committee upon failing to attend at least
two-thirds of all meetings held during a one-year period.
      (3)   The Mayor, with Council approval, may remove any member for
incompetence, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
      (4)   Any member of the Committee having a pecuniary or personal interest
in any matter coming before the Committee shall disclose such interest to the
other members and such interest shall be made a matter of record. Any member
having such an interest shall not present or speak on such matter nor shall
vote or in any way use his or her personal influence on such matters nor shall
he or she be counted in determining a quorum for consideration of such matter.
(Ord. 1223, passed 9-7-99)
§ 32.92 RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY.
   Subject to the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city, the City
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall have and may exercise the
following authority and responsibilities.
   (A)   To assist persons interested in Historic Preservation by:
      (1)   Acting in an advisory capacity in the review of plans and
specifications for alterations;
      (2)   Developing an educational program of technical information and
assistance for contractors, tradesmen, craftsmen, property owners, and others;
      (3)   To work in conjunction with the Main Street Directors in publishing
maps, newsletters, brochures and pamphlets and making presentations to inform
and educate the public concerning the historic and architectural heritage of
the city.
      (4)   Developing and maintaining a library of informative material.
      (5)   Maintaining a file of available architects, historians, contractors
preservationists and other resource people.
   (B)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas.
   (C)   To investigate and recommend to the City Council the adoption of
procedures to protect properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value.
   (D)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of properties or
structures which have special historic, community or architectural value.
   (E)   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse and on procedures for
inclusion on the State or National Register of Historic Places.
   (F)   Applicants requesting assistance in regards to preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation and reuse and on procedures for inclusion on the
State or National Register of Historic Places may submit plans, drawings,
elevations, specifications and other information to the Committee.
   (G)   To administer on the behalf of the city, upon designation by the City
Council, any property or full or partial interest in real property, including a
conservation right as that term is used in ILCS Ch. 765, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.,
which the village may have or accept as a gift or otherwise.
   (H)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city, upon designation by
the City Council, such gifts, grants and money as may be appropriate for the
purpose of this subchapter.
   (I)   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts for
technical advise.
   (J)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the City
Planning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant property and landmarks.
   (K)   To periodically review the City Zoning Ordinance and to recommend to
the City Planning Commission and the City Council any amendments appropriate
for the protection and continued use of historically or architecturally
significant properties.
(Ord. 1223, passed 9-7-99)
§ 32.93 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   The Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall undertake an ongoing
survey and research effort in the city to identify neighborhoods, areas, sites,
structures, and objects that have historic, architectural or aesthetic
importance, interest or value. As part of the survey, the Committee shall
review and evaluate any surveys and studies by any unit of government or
private organization and compile appropriate descriptions, facts and
photographs. The Committee shall identify significant structures based upon the
following criteria:
   (A)   Architecturally or historically significant properties in one
identifiable neighborhood, district or geographical area of the city;
   (B)   Association with a particular person, event or historical period;
   (C)   Representation of a particular architectural style or school or of a
particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or craftsman;
   (D)   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the Preservation Committee to
assure a systematic survey of all significant properties within the city.
(Ord. 1223, passed 9-7-99)
BUSINESS LOAN FUND BOARD
§ 32.100 CREATION.
   A Business Loan Fund Board is hereby created as a department of the city
government under the authority of state law.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.101 COMPOSITION.
   The board established by this subchapter shall consist of eight members and
shall be composed of the following:
   (A)   Two of the members shall be the following city officers, serving ex-
officio:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   The City Attorney.
   (B)   One member shall be a member of the City Council, and shall be
appointed by the Mayor by and with the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The remaining five members shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with
the approval of the City Council, which members shall be appointed on the basis
of their particular fitness or competency for the duty on the board.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.102 TERMS OF OFFICE; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members of the board established pursuant to this subchapter and
who are city officers serving ex-officio shall serve for the term of their
respective city offices.
   (B)   Of the five members of the board initially appointed by the Mayor,
three shall be appointed for a term of one year and two shall be appointed for
a term of two years. Thereafter, such members shall be appointed for terms of
two years.
   (C)   All vacancies occurring on the board shall be filled by appointment
for the remainder of the unexpired term of office only in the same manner as
for the original appointments.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.103 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the board shall serve as such without compensation.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.104 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Any member of the board may be removed for due cause by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.105 ORGANIZATION; BY-LAWS.
   The board shall elect a chairperson, a vice- chairperson, a secretary and
other necessary officers of its own membership and shall adopt such by-laws
regulating the time, place and manner of holding its meetings and conducting
its business, as may, in the judgment of the board, be proper in carrying on
the work of the board.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.106 RECORDS; REPORTS.
   The board shall keep a written record of its proceedings, which records
shall be open to public inspection, when required by law, and shall also file
an annual report with the City Council setting forth its transactions and
recommendations. In all instances the board shall report to the City Council.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.107 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   The board shall cause notice to be given of its meetings in such a manner as
will comply with state law.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.108 PERSONNEL; TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS.
   The board may, upon prior authority from the City Council, employ necessary
personnel whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses shall be provided
by appropriations made by the City Council from the Business Loan Fund. If the
board shall deem it advisable, it may employ and pay for technical consultant
services, upon prior authorization thereof from the City Council.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
§ 32.109 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To establish eligibility requirements, loan size limitations, use
restrictions, duration or term of loans, interest rates, loan security/
collateral criteria and job creation criteria with respect to loans from the
Business Loan Fund; provided, however, no such loan may exceed 50% of the
available BLF account balance without the unanimous approval of the board and
City Council; and further provide that all guidelines adopted by the board
shall be in compliance with the guidelines now in effect or hereafter amended.
   (B)   To solicit, accept and review loan applications from eligible
businesses.
   (C)   To establish and implement procedures for the screening and review of
loan applications, including but not limited to environmental review
procedures, financial analysis, with the applicant and/or a representative of
the applicant's financial institution.
   (D)   To prepare and submit to the City Council for its consideration a
recommendation for the approval or denial of the loan application in whole or
in part.
   (E)   To exercise such ancillary powers to the powers granted by this
section as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish its mission or as may be
conferred by the City Council.
(Ord. 1260, passed 3-5-02)
REGIONAL WATER COMMISSION
§ 32.120 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City of Pittsfield hereby elects to revoke its participation in
the Pike County Water Commission, effective upon the earlier of notification by
the Commissioners of the Commission that all affairs of the Commission have
been concluded and that necessary arrangements for the preservation of the
Commission’s records, resolution of its final obligations and repayment of debt
of the Commission by the member municipalities has been concluded or has been
provided for, or 60 days following the date of adoption of this section.
   (B)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to transmit a
certified copy of this section to the Mayor of Griggsville and the Chairman of
the County Board of Pike County.
(Ord. 1325, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 1345, passed 11-21-06)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Depositories
   
33.02   Maximum rate for general corporate purposes
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
33.15   Tax imposed; rate; deadline
   
33.16   Annual report; remittance of tax
   
33.17   Failure to pay
Municipal Use Tax
   
33.30   Established; persons liable; amount
   
33.31   Collection
   
33.32   Farm machinery and equipment
Retailers' Tax
   
33.45   Established; rate
   
33.46   Monthly report to state
   
33.47   Remittance
   
33.48   Distribution of state money
   
33.49   Inapplicability
Local Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
33.60   Title
   
33.61   Scope
   
33.62   Definitions
   
33.63   Notices
   
33.64   Late payment
   
33.65   Payment
   
33.66   Credits and refunds
   
33.67   Audit procedure
   
33.68   Appeal
   
33.69   Hearing
   
33.70   Interest and penalties
   
33.71   Abatement
   
33.72   Installment contracts
   
33.73   Statute of limitations
   
33.74   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.75   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.76   Review procedure
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
33.85   Definitions
   
33.86   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
33.87   Collection of tax by retailers
   
33.88   Returns to Department
   
33.89   Resellers
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
33.90   Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
Cross-reference
   Tax increment financing, see
T.S.O. VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DEPOSITORIES.
   Depositories for city funds shall be as designated from time to time by the
City Council.
('74 Code, § 2-4)
§ 33.02 MAXIMUM RATE FOR GENERAL CORPORATE PURPOSES.
   The maximum tax rate for general corporate purposes for the city shall
established annually on the assessed valuation of all taxable property in the
city, as ascertained and set by law.
('74 Code, § 26-1) (Ord. 443, passed 12-11-51)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 33.15 TAX IMPOSED; RATE; DEADLINE.
   All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under the laws
of the state and which are engaged in the city in effecting or soliciting fire
insurance shall pay to the City Treasurer, for the maintenance, use and benefit
of the Fire Department of the city, 2% of the gross receipts received by the
corporation, company or association in the city, on all premiums which have
been received for any insurance affected or agreed to be issued in the city
during the year, which shall end June 30 each year.
('74 Code, § 26-43) (Ord. 311, passed 12-30-37)
§ 33.16 ANNUAL REPORT; REMITTANCE OF TAX.
   Each person who shall act in the city as an agent or otherwise for a
corporation, company or association subject to this subchapter shall, on or
before July 15 each year, render to the City Clerk a full, true and just
account, verified under oath, of all the premiums which have been received by
him or her or any other person for the agent during the year ending June 30
next preceding the report. The report shall specify the amounts received for
fire insurance. The agent, at the time of rendering the report, shall pay the
Treasurer or Treasurer's designee the tax imposed by this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 26-44) (Ord. 311, passed 12-30-37)
§ 33.17 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the annual report required by §
33.16 is not rendered on or before July 15 each year, or if the taxes shall be
unpaid after that date, it shall be unlawful for any corporation, company or
association in default to transact any business or insurance in the city until
the tax has been fully paid and the required report rendered.
('74 Code, § 26-45) (Ord. 311, passed 12-30-37)
MUNICIPAL USE TAX
§ 33.30 ESTABLISHED; PERSONS LIABLE; AMOUNT.
   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of Illinois
Municipal Code, § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of
the tangible property with the selling price to have the meaning as defined in
the Use Tax Act approved July 14, 1955.
('74 Code, § 26-56) (Ord. 904, passed 10-15-74)
§ 33.31 COLLECTION.
   The tax established by §
33.30 shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
('74 Code, § 26-57) (Ord. 904, passed 10-15-74)
§ 33.32 FARM MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3 of the Use Tax
Act approved July 14, 1955, as amended, and as set forth in ILCS Ch. 35, Act
105, § 3-5, shall not apply to the privilege of using in the municipality any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of this
state's government.
('74 Code, § 26-58) (Ord. 977, passed 9-16-80)
RETAILERS' TAX
§ 33.45 ESTABLISHED; RATE.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon each person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the city at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from the sales made in the course of business, in accordance with the
provisions of state law.
('74 Code, § 26-28) (Ord. 817, passed 9-2-69)
§ 33.46 MONTHLY REPORT TO STATE.
   Each person engaged in a business upon which a tax is imposed by §
33.45 shall file the report to the State Department of Revenue required by “An
Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling
Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumptions,” approved
June 18, 1933, as currently set forth in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
('74 Code, § 26-29) (Ord. 817, passed 9-2-69)
§ 33.47 REMITTANCE.
   At the time the monthly report to the state required by §
33.46 is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department of Revenue the
amount of tax imposed by this subchapter on account of the receipts from sales
of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
('74 Code, § 26-30) (Ord. 817, passed 9-2-69)
§ 33.48 DISTRIBUTION OF STATE MONEY.
   Distributions from the state for the city’s portion of the Retailer’s
Occupation Tax and Service Occupation Tax shall be deposited in accounts as set
forth in the annual appropriations ordinance.
§ 33.49 INAPPLICABILITY.
   Exclusions contained in § 2 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, as amended
and set forth in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 2, shall not apply to persons engaged
in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail within the
city.
('74 Code, § 26-32) (Ord. 977, passed 9-16-80)
LOCAL TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 33.60 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.61 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.62 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT. The “Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.”
   CITY. The City of Pittsfield, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The City’s Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk, charged with the administration and
collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.63 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.64 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. Postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.65 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.66 CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.67 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted no more than 30 days from the date the
notice is given, unless the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the
date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days,
approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.68 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45 day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45 day period.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.69 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.68, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.70 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 10%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty or 10% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 10% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 10% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.71 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.72 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14 day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.73 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.74 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.75 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
§ 33.76 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 1243, passed 1-16-01)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 33.85 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE.  The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-
office channel provided within Illinois. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not
include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this subchapter;
         (b)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (c)   The tax imposed by Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   911 surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of
Section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering
any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of
the Public Utilities Act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time- sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under Section
9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   BAD DEBT. Any portion of a debt that is related to a sale at retail
for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or excludable that has
become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under applicable federal
income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to be bad is
subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that portion
during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER.  Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to insure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. This or any like
term means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL.  The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer’s place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by the Article.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, this includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this subchapter, PRIVATE LINE
means a dedicated non- traffic sensitive service for a single customer, that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel
or group of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value- added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under this Act. For purposes of this section,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in Section 2-
27 of the Retailers’ Occupations Tax Act.
(Ord. 1271, passed 9-17-02)
§ 33.86 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
0.25% (not to exceed 6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer. NOTE: The tax must be imposed in
increments of 0.25%.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
0.25% (not to exceed 6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer. NOTE: The tax must be imposed in
increments of 0.25%. To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 1271, passed 9-17-02)
§ 33.87 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 1271, passed 9-17-02)
§ 33.88 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this section on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-526, Section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement this
Act.
(Ord. 1271, passed 9-17-02)
§ 33.89 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax- free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 1271, passed 9-17-02)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.90 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq., at
retail in the city at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales
made in the course of that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
§ 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (“Department”). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their sellers’ tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Effective date.
      (1)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication as required by law, provided, however,
that the tax provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after
the first day of January, 2020. Copies of this section shall be certified and
sent to the Illinois Department of Revenue prior to April 1,2020.
      (2)   The City Council of the City of Pittsfield hereby finds an
emergency to exist that requires that this section take effect at the earliest
possible date.
      (3)   Due to the fact that it is urgent that this section take effect
immediately, this section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the City Council and approval by the Mayor, all pursuant to the
final paragraph of § 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 1-2-4).
(Ord. 1641, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 1653, passed 2-18-20)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Appointment
   
34.02   Bonds
   
34.03   Removal; restoration
   
34.04   Social security
   
34.05   State municipal retirement fund
   
34.06   Work week
   
34.07   Vacation
   
34.08   Sick leave
   
34.09   Holidays
   
34.10   Termination
   
34.11   Pay dates
   
34.12   Attendance at council meetings
   
34.13   Jury duty
   
34.14   Absences due to deaths
   
34.15   Absence; tardiness
   
34.16   Overtime accumulation
   
34.17   Other personnel provisions
   
34.18   Light duty
   
34.19   Prevailing rate of wages
   
34.20   Employee handbook
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
34.40   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council, all officers of the city except the City Clerk.
   (B)   Whenever a vacancy shall occur in any office which, by law or
ordinance, the Mayor is empowered and required to fill, the Mayor shall, at the
first regular meeting after the vacancy occurred, designate a suitable person
to discharge the functions of the office.
('74 Code, § 2-44)
§ 34.02 BONDS.
   (A)   Required. Official bond shall be required by city officers and in the
amounts established from time to time by the City Council.
('74 Code, § 2-45)
   (B)   Premiums.
      (1)   The city shall pay the premiums on all official bonds required by
this chapter or other city ordinance of official bonds required by this chapter
or other city ordinance of city officers out of the general corporate fund of
the city.
      (2)   The Council shall select the surety company from which it shall
purchase the bonds referred to in division (1) above.
('74 Code, § 2-46) (Ord. 477, passed 6-10-53)
§ 34.03 REMOVAL; RESTORATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him
or her whenever the interests of the city demand it. The Mayor shall report the
reasons for the removal to the City Council at a meeting to be held not less
than five days nor more than ten days after the removal.
   (B)   If the Mayor fails or refuses to file with the City Clerk a statement
of the reasons for the removal or if the Council, by a 2/3 vote of all its
members authorized by law to be elected by yeas and nays, to be entered upon
its record, disapproves of the removal, the officer shall be restored to the
office from which he or she was removed but shall give new bonds and take a new
oath of office.
   (C)   No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
('74 Code, § 2-47)
§ 34.04 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Policy declared; effective date. It is declared the policy of the city
to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective May 1, 1954, the
benefits of the federal old age and survivors insurance system, as authorized
by the federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of the
policy and for that purpose, the Mayor shall take the action required by
applicable state or federal laws and regulations.
   (B)   Execution of agreements. The Mayor is authorized and directed to
execute an agreement with the state employees' retirement system, Social
Security unit, to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in division
(A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings from salaries. Withholdings from the salaries of wages of
city employees for the purpose of this section are authorized to be made in the
amounts and at the times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency in the amounts and at
the times as are designated by state and federal laws or regulations.
   (D)   Employer's contributions. Employer contributions and administrative
expenses shall be paid to the state and federal agencies in accordance with
applicable state and federal laws and regulations from amounts appropriate for
the purposes.
   (E)   Records. The City Clerk shall maintain the records and submit the
reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
('74 Code, § 2-110) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.05 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The election of the city to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund as of January 1, 1968, is hereby continued.
('74 Code, § 2-111) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.06 WORK WEEK.
   (A)   The employees of the city shall be on a 40-hour work week, except for
the City Hall employees, who will be on a 35-hour work week, the City Hall
being open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday each week, and
except for city employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
   (B)   The head of each department of the city shall have the authority to
schedule the working hours and days for each employee under his or her
direction, except for city employees covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, according to the necessity, desirability, and nature of the work
concerned.
   (C)   City employees are subject to be on call for over 40 hours in the
event of an emergency.
('74 Code, § 2-112) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90;
Am. Ord. 1247, passed 4-17-01)
§ 34.07 VACATION.
   (A)   All appointed officers and employees of the city shall be entitled to
the following vacation leave with pay:
      (1)   After one full year of continuous employment, 6 days of vacation.
      (2)   After two full years of continuous employment, 12 days of vacation.
      (3)   After ten years of continuous employment, 18 days of vacation.
   (B)   No employee shall accumulate or carry over any vacation days from one
year to another year. Vacation time is figured from the anniversary date of the
employee's first day of employment with the city, to the current anniversary
date and not the fiscal year.
   (C)   Vacation time may be taken in one-day increments, at times as may be
approved by the respective officer's or employee's department head or
supervisor. The officer or employee shall request vacation time at least two
weeks prior to the date vacation is to commence; provided, two-week
notification may be excused in the event of a bonafide emergency or for good
cause shown.
   (D)   The officer or employee may cancel his or her scheduled vacation upon
three working days notice to his or her department head or supervisor, but
shall not return to work before the scheduled termination of vacation, once the
vacation has commenced.
   (E)   In the event an officer or employee of the city has accumulated or
carried over vacation time from a prior year on the effective date of this
section, the accumulated vacation time shall be used prior to May 1, 1991. If
not used prior to that date, the remaining accumulated vacation time shall be
forfeited.
('74 Code, § 2-113) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90;
Am. Ord. 1247, passed 4-17-01)
§ 34.08 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All appointed officers and employees of the city shall be entitled to
ten days of sick leave with pay per fiscal year and may accumulate up to 150
sick days. All employee sick leave shall be prorated on a monthly basis during
the first and last year of employment.
   (B)   Upon retirement or termination of employment all appointed officers
and employees shall be paid half their accumulated, unused sick leave, at his
or her then-current rate of pay.
   (C)   Any department head or supervisor may require an employee to present a
slip from a licensed physician indicating the employee has been under the
physician's care and is able to return to work. In the event the employee fails
to provide the statement, the department head or supervisor may refuse to
permit the employee to return to work and the absence shall be treated as
unexcused. In that event, the employee shall be ineligible for sick leave pay
for the absence.
('74 Code, § 2-114) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90;
Am. Ord. 1247, passed 4-17-01)
§ 34.09 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All employees of the city, except for city employees covered by a
collective bargaining agreement, shall be entitled to 12 paid holidays per
year, as follows:
      (1)   New Year's Day.
      (2)   President's Day.
      (3)   Good Friday.
      (4)   Memorial Day.
      (5)   Independence Day.
      (6)   Labor Day.
      (7)   Veteran's Day.
      (8)   Thanksgiving Day.
      (9)   The day after Thanksgiving Day.
      (10)   The day before Christmas Day.
      (11)   Christmas Day.
      (12)   The employee's birthday.
('74 Code, § 2-115) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
   (B)   Each employee shall take his or her birthday holiday within the
calendar week in which it actually falls.
('74 Code, § 2-115) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
   (C)   In the event a holiday falls on a Saturday, the holiday shall be
observed on the Friday immediately before the actual date of the holiday.
('74 Code, § 2-115) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
   (D)   In the event a holiday falls on a Sunday, the holiday shall be
observed on the Monday immediately after the holiday or, if the Monday also is
a holiday, on the Tuesday immediately following the holiday.
('74 Code, § 2-115) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
   (E)   All departments will close for holidays on the dates the City Hall is
closed.
('74 Code, § 2-116) (Ord. 996, passed 11-17-81; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.10 TERMINATION.
   Except for city employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement, upon
termination of employment by removal, resignation or retirement, all appointed
officers and employees of the city shall be paid in full for all accumulated
overtime, unused holiday pay, unused vacation pay and accumulated sick leave.
Payment shall be made in lump sum, payable by the closing of business on the
last day the person is employed in the city.
('74 Code, § 2-119) (Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.11 PAY DATES.
   Except for city employees covered by a col- lective bargaining agreement,
the salaries and wages of the city employees shall be paid monthly, except
officers of the Fire Department, who shall be paid in April of each year.
(Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.12 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The following department heads will be required to attend all
regularly scheduled City Council meetings:
      (1)   Street and Alley Foreman;
      (2)   Gas and Water Foreman;
      (3)   Chief of Police;
      (4)   Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Any absence must be approved by the Mayor before the meeting.
('74 Code, § 2-120) (Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.13 JURY DUTY.
   In the event an appointed officer or employee of the city is called for jury
duty, the city shall pay the officer or employee the difference between regular
pay and the amount paid for serving on jury duty.
(Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.14 ABSENCES DUE TO DEATHS.
   Except for city employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement, a
city officer or employee will be allowed three working days off, with pay, when
a death occurs in the immediate family of the officer or employee. Immediate
family is defined to include the following persons in relationship to the
officer or employee: spouse, mother, father, son, daughter, sister, brother,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, stepchild, grandchild.
('74 Code, § 2-121) (Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.15 ABSENCE; TARDINESS.
   (A)   Except for city employees covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, in the event an employee will be absent or tardy, the employee shall
notify his or her supervisor or department head before the scheduled starting
time of each shift when the employee will be absent or tardy.
   (B)   An employee may be granted unscheduled time off only with the approval
of the employee's supervisor or department head. If an employee desires time
off, without pay, for personal business, the employee shall request the time
off at or before the beginning of his or her work shift.
   (C)   In the event a department head, Chief Operator or Building Inspector
will be absent or tardy, the person shall notify the Director of Public Works
before the scheduled starting time of each shift when the person will be absent
or tardy.
(Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.16 OVERTIME ACCUMULATION.
   No employee will be allowed to carry overtime into the following fiscal year
beyond a maximum of 60 hours. At any time overtime is accumulated in excess of
60 hours, such excess shall be used within two weeks.
('74 Code, § 2-122) (Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90; Am. Ord. 1280, passed 4-1-03)
§ 34.17 OTHER PERSONNEL PROVISIONS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, adopt other policies, rules or
regulations with regard to appointed officers and employees of the city as it
deems expeditious and desirable, except for city employees covered by a
collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. 1084, passed 2-20-90)
§ 34.18 LIGHT DUTY.
   (A)   The city may require an employee who is on paid or unpaid leave of
absence, including leaves for work-related accidents or injuries, to return to
work in an available light duty assignment that the employee is qualified to
perform, provided that the city's physician has determined that the employee is
physically able to perform the light duty assignment in question without
significant risk that such return to work will aggravate any pre-existing
injury and that there is a reasonable expectation that the employee will be
able to assume full duties and responsibilities within 90 calendar days.
Employees may also request light duty assignments in accordance with the
provisions of this section. The terms and conditions of any light duty
assignment shall not conflict with the express terms of the agreement;
provided, however, the work schedule shall be determined exclusively by the
employee's Department Head. Generally, a light duty assignment under this
section shall not exceed 90 calendar days. The city reserves the right to
terminate any light duty assignment at any earlier time.
   (B)   If an employee returns or is required to return to work in a light
duty assignment and the employee is unable to assume full duties and
responsibilities within 90 calendar days, the city retains the right to
terminate the employee's light duty assignment.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require the city to create or
maintain a light duty assignment for an employee. Employees will only be
assigned light duty assignments when the city determines that the need exists
and only as long as such need exists.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall effect the statutory rights of the
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund dealing with an employee on a disability
pension.
(Ord. 1215, passed 3-16-99)
§ 34.19 PREVAILING RATE OF WAGES.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by "An act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by the Sate, County,
City or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under
contract for public works" approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged i n the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of this city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Pike County area as
determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of July 2010,
a copy of that determination being attached to the ordinance codified herein as
Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. The definition of any terms
appearing in the ordinance codified herein which are also used in the Act shall
be the same as in the Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply the general prevailing rate
of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public works of
the city to the extent required by the Act.
   (C)   The Mayor shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination of the
prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The Mayor shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and
to any association of employers and to any person or association of employees
who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
(Ord. 1420, passed 7-20-10)
§ 34.20 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The Employee Handbook approved by the City Council on January 3, 2012,
is hereby adopted as the Employee Handbook of the City of Pittsfield.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to amend the handbook through
its regularly scheduled meetings without the necessity of adopting an ordinance
approving the amendment.
(Ord. 1449, passed 2-21-12)
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 34.40 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The regulations of Sections 5-15 (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 5-15) and
Article 10 (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials
and Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter
referred to as the “Act” in this section) are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the extent
required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any office or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act if found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; provided,
however, that part of this section relating to the part of the Act found
unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 1295, passed 5-4-04)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
Freedom of Information Requests
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Request procedures
   
35.03   List of records available from city
   
35.04   Fees
   
35.05   Exemptions
   
35.06   Non-exempt materials contained in exempt records
Travel and Business Expenses
   
35.20   Applicability
   
35.21   Definitions
   
35.22   Approved activities eligible for reimbursement
   
35.23   Expense reimbursement request form
   
35.24   Maximum reimbursements
   
35.25   General standards
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
35.40   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
35.41   Definition of sexual harassment
   
35.42   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
35.43   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
35.44   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
35.45   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUESTS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words used in this subchapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140 § 2.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
§ 35.02 REQUEST PROCEDURES.
   The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, except as otherwise provided herein and except as such
disclosure would be inconsistent with the public policy of the state as set
forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1. Notwithstanding any other law, the city may
not grant to any person or entity, whether by contract, license or otherwise,
the exclusive right to access and disseminate any public record as defined in
the Freedom of Information Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1 et seq.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
§ 35.03 LIST OF RECORDS AVAILABLE FROM CITY.
   As to public records prepared or received after July 1, 1984, the city shall
maintain and make available for inspection and copying a reasonably accurate
list of all types or categories of obtaining access to public records pursuant
to this subchapter. The city shall furnish upon written request a description
of the manner in which public records stored by means of electronic data
processing may be obtained in a form comprehensible to persons lacking
knowledge of computer language or printout format.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
§ 35.04 FEES.
   The city shall charge fees reasonably calculated to reimburse its actual
cost, excluding search and review costs, for reproducing and certifying public
records. Such fees shall be imposed according to standard scale of fees,
established and made public by the city. In no event shall any person
requesting to inspect or copy records pursuant to this subchapter be allowed
the use of city equipment to copy such records. Upon receipt of a request for
production and/or certification of public records, the fee for which the city
determines may exceed $25, the city shall require a deposit upon receipt of
such request in the amount of the expected reproduction and/or certification
charge. Any deposit balance shall be paid or refunded upon receipt or delivery
of the requested public records.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
§ 35.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   That which is exempt from inspection and copying under ILCS Ch. 5, Act
140, § 7 shall be exempt from inspection and copying under this section.
   (B)   This section does not authorize withholding of information or limit
the availability of records to the public, except as stated in ILCS Ch. 5, Act
140, § 7, or otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
§ 35.06 NON-EXEMPT MATERIALS CONTAINED IN EXEMPT RECORDS.
   If any public record that is exempt from disclosure under §
35.05 contains any material that is not exempt, the city shall delete the
information which is exempt and make the remaining information available for
inspection and copying.
(Ord. 1308, passed 12-21-04)
TRAVEL AND BUSINESS EXPENSES
§ 35.20 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all officers, whether elected or appointed, and
employees of the city.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
§ 35.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section.
   APPROVED ACTIVITY. 
      (1)   A conference, program, seminar or event relating to the city; or
      (2)   Official business of the city. See §
35.22.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless the entertainment is ancillary to an
approved activity. For purposes of this subchapter. ANCILLARY means an element
of a program or activity that is supportive of the primary element of that
program or activity, but is not itself the primary element.
   MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES. Reasonable costs for Wi-Fi access, telephone service,
photocopying, and other miscellaneous expenses (such as, for example, the cost
of a meal for a guest) as determined by the City Council, based on the
particular approved activity.
   TRAVEL EXPENSES. Expenditures related to transportation, meals, lodging,
related services and miscellaneous charges, directly incident to an approved
activity. TRAVEL EXPENSES do not include the registration fee for a conference,
program, seminar or event, which must be approved separately.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
§ 35.22 APPROVED ACTIVITIES ELIGIBLE FOR REIMBURSEMENT.
   Travel expenses are eligible for reimbursement for the following approved
activities.
   (A)   Continuing education and professional development relating to the
officer’s or employee’s office or duties.
   (B)   Conferences, seminars and similar events relating to the officer’s or
employee’s office or duties.
   (C)   Offsite meetings related to city business.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
§ 35.23 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT REQUEST FORM.
   An officer or employee seeking reimbursement of travel expenses related to
an approved activity must complete and submit the city’s travel expense
reimbursement request form, which is attached to Ordinance 1575 as Exhibit A,
and is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
§ 35.24 MAXIMUM REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   The following limits on reimbursements of travel expenses apply to
each officer or employee for a single approved activity. The City Council may
approve exceptions to these limits, subject to approval by the City Council
(see §
35.25(C)).
   (B)   No reimbursement for a single travel expense related to an approved
activity may exceed the following amounts:
      (1)   Meals                      $100 per day.
      (2)   Overnight lodging               $300 per night.
      (3)   Car rental or other surface transportation      $80 per day.
      (4)   Air fare (round trip total)             $500 per trip.
      (5)   Miscellaneous charges            $75 per day.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
§ 35.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following general standards apply to reimbursements.
   (A)   Mileage. Mileage reimbursement will be based on the current rate set
by the IRS in IRS Publication 463 “Travel, Entertainment, Gift, and Car
Expenses” at the time the miles are driven.
   (B)   Receipts.  The officer or employee must provide a receipt or other
reasonable proof for each travel expense for which the officer or employee
seeks reimbursement, unless the City Council determines that, for good cause,
no receipt or other proof is necessary for a particular travel expense. If a
travel expense includes a miscellaneous charge for the benefit of a person
other than the officer or employee, such as, for example, the cost of a meal
for a guest, then the officer or employee must identify the person for whom the
miscellaneous charge was incurred.
   (C)   City Council approval.  A travel expense for an approved activity for
(1) any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum allowed under this
subchapter, or (2) any member of the City Council, must be included in the
city’s accounts payable report to the City Council and approved by a roll call
vote at an open meeting.
   (D)   Emergencies.  The City Council may approve reimbursements for travel
expenses exceeding maximum limits or otherwise not in conformance with the
standards of this subchapter in the case of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstance. That approval must be in writing, stating the nature or the
emergency or other extraordinary circumstance.
   (E)   No reimbursement for entertainment.  The city will not reimburse any
travel expense incurred for entertainment.
   (F)   City credit card charges. Charges in payment of travel expenses made
by an officer or employee on a city credit card are subject to the terms and
standards of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1575, passed 1-17-17)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 35.40 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of City of Pittsfield to prohibit
harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal
employee or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All
municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.41 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal: suggestive or Insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)    Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   (B)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18)
§ 35.42 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18)
§ 35.43 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a State or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.44 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
State or Federal agency.
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18)
§ 35.45 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 1618, passed 12-18-18)
CHAPTER 36: SENSITIVE INFORMATION POLICY AND PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Background
   
36.02   Purpose
   
36.03   Scope
   
36.04   Roles and responsibilities
   
36.05   Definitions
   
36.06   Enforcement
Policies
   
36.20   Sensitive Information Policy
   
36.21   Additional Identity Theft Prevention Program
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 BACKGROUND.
   The risk to the city, its employees and customers from data loss and
identity theft is of significant concern to the city and can only be reduced
through the combined efforts of every employee and contractor.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city adopts this Sensitive Information Policy to help protect
employees, customers, contractors and the city from damages related to the loss
or misuse of sensitive information. This policy will:
      (1)   Define sensitive information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
and
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed.
   (B)   Putting the Identity Theft Prevention Program in place enables the
city to protect existing customers, reducing risk from identity fraud and
minimize potential damage to the city from fraudulent new accounts. The program
will help the city:
      (1)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within
new or existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
      (3)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
      (4)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing accounts that
are covered and identified risks that are part of the program.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.03 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program apply to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers and other workers at the city, including all
personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.04 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Management will have the responsibility to adopt, implement and enforce this
policy and ensure that it is followed by employees and contractors. Additional
responsibilities regarding the operation of the Identity Theft Prevention
Program may be outlined above or as listed in additional written guidance.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF DIRECTORS. In addition to the plain meaning, for companies that do
not have a Board of Directors, this term is defined as a designated employee at
the senior level of management.
   ENCRYPTION. The translation of data into a secret code. Encryption is the
most effective way to achieve data security. To read an encrypted file, one
must have access to a secret key or password that enables one to decrypt it.
Unencrypted data is called “plain text.”
   HARD COPY. A printout of data stored in a computer. It is considered “hard”
because it exists physically on paper, whereas a “soft copy” exists only
electronically.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. Any person or entity that maintains, processes or
otherwise is permitted access to customer information or consumer information
through the provision of services directly to the city.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
POLICIES
§ 36.20 SENSITIVE INFORMATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definition of sensitive information. SENSITIVE INFORMATION includes
the following items whether stored in electronic or printed format.
      (1)   Personal information. Sensitive information consists of personal
information including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Credit card information, including any of the following:
            1.   Credit card number (in part or whole);
            2.   Credit card expiration date;
            3.   Cardholder name; and
            4.   Cardholder address.
         (b)   Tax identification numbers, including:
            1.   Social Security Number;
            2.   Social insurance number;
            3.   Business identification number; and
            4.   Employer identification numbers.
         (c)   Payroll information, including, among other information:
            1.   Paychecks;
            2.   Pay stubs; and
            3.   Pay rates.
         (d)   Cafeteria plan check requests and associated paperwork;
         (e)   Medical information for any employees or customers, including,
but not limited to:
            1.   Doctor names and claims;
            2.   Insurance claims;
            3.   Prescriptions; and
            4.   Any related personal medical information.
         (f)   Other personal information belonging to customers, employees and
contractors, examples of which include:
            1.   Date of birth;
            2.   Address;
            3.   Phone numbers;
            4.   Maiden name;
            5.   Names; and
            6.   Customer number.
      (2)   Corporate information. Sensitive corporate information includes,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   City, employee, customer, vendor, supplier confidential,
proprietary information or trade secrets;
         (b)   Proprietary and/or confidential information, among other things,
includes: business methods, customer utilization information, retention
information, sales information, marketing and other city strategy, computer
codes, screens, forms, information about, or received from, the city’s current,
former and prospective customers, sales associates or suppliers or any other
non-public information. Proprietary and/or confidential information also
includes the name and identity of any customer or vendor and the specifics of
any relationship between and among them and the city;
         (c)   Any document marked “Confidential,” “Sensitive,” “Proprietary”
or any document similarly labeled; and
         (d)   The city personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment
in securing the city’s confidential information to the proper extent. If an
employee is uncertain of the sensitivity of a particular piece of information,
he or she should contact his or her supervisor/manager.
   (B)   Hard copy distribution. Every employee and contractor performing work
for the city will comply with the following policies:
      (1)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use;
      (2)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday;
      (3)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use;
      (4)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets and the like in
common shared work areas will be erased, removed or shredded when not in use;
and
      (5)   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded, they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded using a
mechanical cross cut or Department of Defense (DOD) approved shredding device.
Locked shred bins are labeled “confidential paper shredding and recycling”. If
one needs any assistance in locating one of these bins, please contact a
supervisor/manager.
   (C)   Electronic distribution. Every employee and contractor performing work
for the city will comply with the following policies.
      (1)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
city e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      (2)   Any sensitive information sent external must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail: “This message may contain
confidential and/or proprietary information, and is intended for the person/
entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by others is strictly
prohibited.”
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.21 ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   If the city maintains certain covered accounts pursuant to federal
legislation, the city may include the additional program details. The red flags
in division (B) below may be tailored to the specific company’s needs.
   (A)   Covered accounts. Every new and existing customer account that meets
the following criteria is covered by this program.
      (1)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft.
      (2)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety and/or soundness of the city from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   (B)   Red flags. The following “red flags” are potential indicators of fraud
and any time when a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is
apparent, it should be investigated for verification.
      (1)   Alerts. Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report;
         (b)   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze
in response to a request for a consumer report;
         (c)   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address
discrepancy, as defined in § 334.82(b) of this part; and
         (d)   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
            1.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            2.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            3.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; and
            4.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      (2)   Suspicious documents.
         (a)   Documents provided for identification appear to have been
altered or forged;
         (b)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification;
         (c)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification;
         (d)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; and
         (e)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives
the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information.
         (a)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the financial institution
or creditor. For example:
            1.   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
and
            2.   The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File.
         (b)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
         (c)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used
by the financial institution or creditor. For example: The address on an
application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application.
         (d)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
            1.   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop or
prison; and
            2.   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         (e)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
         (f)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of other persons opening accounts or other customers.
         (g)   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         (h)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor.
         (i)   For financial institutions and creditors that use challenge
questions, the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot
provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be
available from a wallet or consumer report.
      (4)   Unusual use of, or suspicious activity related to, the covered
account.
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a
covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for new,
additional or replacement cards or a cell phone, or for the addition of
authorized users on the account.
         (b)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example:
            1.   The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or
merchandise that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or
jewelry); and
            2.   The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an
initial payment but no subsequent payments.
         (c)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent
with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
            1.   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments;
            2.   A material increase in the use of available credit;
            3.   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
            4.   A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in
connection with a deposit account; and
            5.   A material change in telephone call patterns in connection
with a cellular phone account.
         (d)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account,
the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         (e)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer’s covered account.
         (f)   The financial institution or creditor is notified that the
customer is not receiving paper account statements.
         (g)   The financial institution or creditor is notified of
unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer’s covered
account.
      (5)   Notice.
         (a)   Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law
enforcement authorities or other persons regarding possible identity theft in
connection with covered accounts held by the financial institution or creditor.
         (b)   The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer,
a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority or any other person
that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
   (C)   Responding to red flags. Once potentially fraudulent activity is
detected, it is essential to act quickly as a rapid appropriate response can
protect customers and the city from damages and loss.
      (1)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all
related documentation and write a description of the situation. Take this
information and present it to the designated authority for determination.
      (2)   The designated program representative will complete additional
authentication to determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or
authentic.
      (3)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate
actions must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
         (a)   Cancel the transaction;
         (b)   Notify and cooperate with appropriate law enforcement;
         (c)   Determine extent of liability to company; and
         (d)   Notify actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
   (D)   Periodic updates to plan.
      (1)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required,
the program will be re-evaluated to determine whether all aspects of the
program are up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
      (2)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
      (3)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated. New red flags may also be appropriate actions to take in the event
that fraudulent activity is discovered.
      (4)   May also require revision to reduce damage to the city and its
customers.
   (E)   Program administration.
      (1)   Involvement of senior management.
         (a)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program shall not be operated as
an extension to existing fraud prevention programs and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
         (b)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program is the responsibility of
the City Council. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately documented
and maintained.
         (c)   Operational responsibility of the program can be delegated to a
designated employee.
      (2)   Staff training.
         (a)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, contractors
for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into contact with
accounts or personally identifiable information which may constitute a risk to
the city or its customers.
         (b)   Staff members shall continue to receive training as required as
changes to the program are made to ensure maximum effectiveness of the program.
      (3)   Oversight of service provider arrangements.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the city to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
         (b)   A service provider that maintains its own Identity Theft
Prevention Program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and
validated by appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these
requirements.
         (c)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in
the appropriate contract arrangements.
(Ord. 1400, passed 4-21-09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   NATURAL GAS
      
51.   SEWERS; WASTEWATER
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   UTILITIES
CHAPTER 50: NATURAL GAS
   Editor's note: Provisions of this chapter may now be superseded by
regulations of the Illinois Commerce Commission. Code users should refer to
those state administrative regulations for authoritative provisions.
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Complaints about Gas Department
   
50.02   Third party liability
   
50.03   Resale
   
50.04   Heating unit installation
   
50.05   Construction plans to include location of gas lines and mains
   
50.06   Preconstruction conferences
   
50.07   Surface marking
   
50.08   Identification of facilities
   
50.09   Accidental exposure report
   
50.10   Utility representative at site of excavation
Service
   
50.20   Supply and regulation by city
   
50.21   Interruption of service or supply
   
50.22   Emergency interruptions
   
50.23   Application
Rates; Charges; Payments
   
50.30   Definitions; rates
   
50.31   Late payment
   
50.32   Non payment
   
50.33   Re-connection charges
   
50.34   Deposit
   
50.35   Connection charges
   
50.36   Budget plan for bill payment
Meters and Appurtenances
   
50.45   Meters required
   
50.46   Separate meters for separate premises
   
50.47   Meter reading results conclusive
   
50.48   Testing
   
50.49   Accessibility for inspection
   
50.50   Damage
   
50.51   Tampering
Pipes; Mains and Appurtenances; Connections
   
50.60   Extension of mains
   
50.61   Specifications for service connections
   
50.62   Pipes in or near buildings
   
50.63   Order for service lines
   
50.64   Layout of lines
   
50.65   Quality of pipe; inspection
Joint Municipal Gas Agency
   
50.80   Agency authorized
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 COMPLAINTS ABOUT GAS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   All questions and complaints shall be made to the Gas Department of
the city, which shall be responsible for the proper investigation and recording
and record maintenance.
   (B)   Complaints received by the city shall be identified by the name and
address of the customer, the date, time, nature of the complaint and remedy by
date and time and kept as a permanent record of the city. The department shall
be required to make a full report to the customer in all such cases, a copy of
which shall be filed with the City Clerk and reported by the Clerk to the City
Council at the next regular meeting. Any disrespectful or unwarranted acts of
the city employees shall be reported immediately. All employees of the city are
strictly forbidden to demand or accept any tips, gratuity or other personal
compensation for any services rendered during working hours.
('74 Code, § 27-146) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.02 THIRD PARTY LIABILITY.
   (A)   When the city executes a railroad permit, highway permit or other hold
harmless document and subsequently employs or contracts for independent outside
services, the city shall require the outside contractor to provide liability
insurance to the city which equals or exceeds the level of coverage afforded it
by the Gas Utilities Alliance, of which the city is a member.
   (B)   The City Gas Department shall not sell or otherwise convey any
material, equipment or supplies, nor trade or exchange with any plumber,
contractor or private individual. Exchanges shall be prohibited except between
members of the alliance and other major established natural gas distribution
utilities. Where exchanges are vitally necessary and in the best interests of
the city, a release or hold harmless form, approved by the Gas Utilities
Alliance, shall be executed by the recipient with written documented authority
for signing.
('74 Code, § 27-149) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.03 RESALE.
   No gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient from the city supply
to any premises other than that for which application has been made and the gas
installed.
('74 Code, § 27-158) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.04 HEATING UNIT INSTALLATION.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the City Gas Department
relating to installation of gas- fired heating units.
   (A)   All gas conversion burners installed in the territory served by the
Department shall be A.G.A. certified and all designed heating plants shall be
A.G.A. approved.
   (B)   Conversion burners shall be properly sized to a heating plant being
converted.
   (C)   No conversion burner shall be installed in old or inefficient warm air
furnaces which either are in poor repair or have inefficient flue travel or old
or leaky boilers which are in poor repair or have short flue travel.
   (D)   A test for leakage by use of oil of wintergreen shall be performed on
any warm air heating plant before installing a conversion burner. A furnace
must be reset if found to be leaking.
   (E)   All soot and scale shall be removed thoroughly from a heating plant to
be converted.
   (F)   The chimney to which a heating plant stack pipe will be connected
shall be cleaned.
   (G)   The manufacturer's recommendations for the installation of gas
conversion burners or designed heating plants shall be followed and all parts
shall be checked before installation.
   (H)   A conversion burner shall be installed so all secondary air can be
controlled.
   (I)   The installer shall either remove or permanently fix in the wide open
position any damper in the flue neck of a heating plant being converted.
   (J)   A new stack pipe shall be installed with an approved design and size
draft diverter to clean the unobstructed chimney. The stack pipe size shall be
one square inch in area per 7,500 BTU of maximum burner output.
   (K)   A draft diverter shall be located in an almost horizontal position,
with the unobstructed clearance as high as the highest flue passage. Designed
heating plants may have built-in diverters.
   (L)   The stack pipe shall be installed so as to maintain a uniform rise of
at least 1/4 inch per foot of horizontal run. Sharp turns with the stack pipe
shall be avoided. The stack pipe joints shall be secured with metal screws and
supports to prevent sagging.
   (M)   Heating plants of the down-draft type shall be vented by connecting a
one-inch black steel pipe from the highest point of the flue passage of the
heating plant to the stack pipe. The one-inch steel pipe shall be welded or
screwed into the furnace in such a manner as to ensure no leakage.
   (N)   The gas fuel line shall be of an adequate size to support a three-inch
burner pressure with the burner operating at the required BTU input.
   (O)   The gas burner fuel line shall originate at a tee as near as possible
to the gas meter and ahead of all other appliances and shall be so supported
that no weight or strain shall be conveyed to the gas meter or the gas burner
manifold.
   (P)   A gas shutoff valve shall be installed in the gas fuel line within two
feet of the gas burner manifold. A pilot line shall be installed ahead of the
main shutoff valve and controls.
   (Q)   A fused-type switch shall be installed in the line ahead of the
controls and all electrical devices on all gas heat installations.
   (R)   All electrical wiring shall conform with the provisions of this code
pertaining to electricity.
   (S)   A high-limit control shall be installed on all heating plants.
   (T)   A low-water cutoff control shall be installed on all gas-fired steam
boilers.
   (U)   A report of the completion of a gas-fired heater installation shall be
made immediately to the Department for inspection and balancing.
   (V)   Heating contractors shall be required to follow the code of heating
standards of installation and shall make any correction to any installation
which is deemed necessary by the Department or its authorized representatives.
('74 Code, § 27-183) (Ord. 723, passed 9-3-63)
§ 50.05 CONSTRUCTION PLANS TO INCLUDE LOCATION OF GAS LINES AND MAINS.
   Plans for construction work, which include excavation or trenching, shall
include the general location of all natural gas service lines and mains which
cross the construction nor are located within ten feet of the outer limits of
the proposed trenching or excavation.
('74 Code, § 27-191) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
§ 50.06 PRECONSTRUCTION CONFERENCES.
   (A)   A preconstruction conference shall be held not less than two weeks
before the beginning of the work. Minutes of that conference shall be
maintained in the permanent records of the City Gas Department.
   (B)   The preconstruction conference described in division (A) above should
be attended by the superintendent of the excavator, by the Gas Manager or
Superintendent of the City Gas Department and any others having responsibility
for the work.
('74 Code, § 27-192) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
§ 50.07 SURFACE MARKING.
   A written request for surface marking shall be delivered by the excavator to
the Gas Manager or Superintendent of the City Gas Department not less than two
full working days before initiation of the excavation.
('74 Code, § 27-193) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
§ 50.08 IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITIES.
   Gas facilities to be exposed by excavations shall be specifically identified
to the Gas Manager or Superintendent of the City Gas Department by the
excavator 24 hours before the facilities will be exposed.
('74 Code, § 27-194) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
§ 50.09 ACCIDENTAL EXPOSURE REPORT.
   The excavator shall report any incident in which gas facilities are
accidentally exposed, but not damaged, to the Gas Manager or Superintendent of
the City Gas Department not more than two hours after the accidental exposure
of facilities.
('74 Code, § 27-195) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
§ 50.10 UTILITY REPRESENTATIVE AT SITE OF EXCAVATION.
   (A)   A qualified employee of the City Gas Department may be present at the
site of any excavation occurring within ten feet of any gas service line or
other gas facility.
   (B)   The cost incurred in providing the person described in division (A)
above shall be paid by theexcavator at actual cost to the Department.
('74 Code, § 27-196) (Ord. 1069, passed 7-19-88)
SERVICE
§ 50.20 SUPPLY AND REGULATION BY CITY.
   All gas supplied from the City Gas Department shall be supplied via meters
furnished by the city and under the rules and regulations as may, from time to
time, be proclaimed by the city.
('74 Code, § 27-144) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.21 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs or improvements, enforce rules or for any
operating reason. In all cases, where possible, a reasonable notice of the
circumstances will be given the customers, but, in an emergency, the gas may be
shut off without notice. The necessary repair or work will be made by the city
as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall not be held responsible or
liable because of any shutoff or discontinuance of service for any direct or
resultant damages to any person, company or customer.
   (B)   In the event of discontinuance of service, the city will make every
attempt to safeguard the customer. Service shall not be renewed until the city
authorities have purged the lines and put into service all automatic controls
and pilots. In no case shall customers turn on their own service. The purging
of lines relighting pilots and checking automatic controls will be done by the
city. Where the nature of the customers' operations are such that an
interruption of service might create a hazard or large economic loss, customers
shall provide facilities for standby service at their discretion.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut off or interfered with by reasons of any street
improvements, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or inconvenience of any kind, either to the
customers adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damages to
property due to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the
city without cost to the customer.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither insure
nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages direct or
indirect by any reason of any fire or any other cause. All gas service
furnished also shall be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents,
fire, strikes, riots or any other cause.
   (E)   Any customer having a facility, operation, process or activity which
cannot, under any or all conditions, tolerate temporary interruption of gas
service shall provide an alternate source of on-site fuel or heat for use
during the interruption. The responsibility for this alternate rests fully with
the consumer.
('74 Code, § 27-147) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.22 EMERGENCY INTERRUPTIONS.
   (A)   All customers of every type having alternate fuel capabilities are
subject to interruption at any time an emergency is declared. The emergency may
be declared at the sole discretion of the city, through its Gas Superintendent.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of all customers having alternate fuel
capabilities to maintain alternate fuel equipment in constant working order and
to maintain on-site storage of fuel to meet the customer's peak requirements
for a period of not less than 24 hours.
('74 Code, § 27-148) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.23 APPLICATION.
   Any prospective customer requesting new gas service or an existing customer
requesting additional or changed gas service shall complete and file with the
City Clerk an application for natural gas service. The application will be in a
form approved by the City Council, copies of which may be obtained from the
office of the Clerk.
('74 Code, § 27-156) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
Cross-reference:
   Deposit, see §
50.34
RATES; CHARGES; PAYMENTS
§ 50.30 DEFINITIONS; RATES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of gas billing by the city, THERM is 100
cubic feet of natural gas; DECATHERM is 1,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
   (B)   Rates. There shall be and are hereby established monthly rates and
charges for the sale of natural gas for the use and service supplied by the
natural gas system of the city, and based upon the amount of gas consumed, as
shown by gas meters, to-wit:
      (1)   General service rate. General service rates shall be established
from time to time by the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on
file and be available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   Gas charge. The above stated charges for natural gas service do not
include the city’s delivered cost for the purchase of natural gas from its
suppliers. The City Clerk is hereby empowered and directed to determine the
actual monthly cost of purchased natural gas on a per dekatherm basis by
dividing the monthly wholesale cost of purchased natural gas and transportation
by the number of thousands of cubic feet of gas consumed and metered by the Gas
Department. Such gas charge is to be applied to each unit of gas delivered.
      (3)   Changes in operating expenses. Any changes in operating expense,
not including the cost of gas, shall be passed uniformly and directly to all
bills rendered after the determination has been made by the City Council. The
determination shall be made using latest fiscal audit report with the base
operating expenses being those recorded for the fiscal year ended the previous
April 30. The base rate was established in 1985. Changes in operating expenses
shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Demonstrable changes identified in the fiscal reports of the
city.
         (b)   Changes in wages, salaries, payroll or payroll expenses
applicable after they have been put into effect.
         (c)   Direct and permanently continuing costs over which the Council
has no control.
      (4)   Applicable taxes. The foregoing rate shall be adjusted when
necessary to fully reflect any tax assessed upon the City Gas Department, under
the state Gas Revenue Tax Act, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 615, §§ 1 et seq., or any other
authority. Customer bills shall be changed to reflect any tax.
      (5)   Special rates. The Council shall have the right to establish
special rates or contracts for gas service to special industrial or special use
service when regular rates are inappropriate or unworkable.
('74 Code, § 27-159) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1237, passed 7-18-00)
§ 50.31 LATE PAYMENT.
   An additional charge of 10% shall be added to all monthly charges on
billings not paid on or before the 20th of the month following the date of the
meter reading. The additional charge may be waived by the City Clerk upon
showing extenuating circumstances. Assessment of the penalty will be waived
once per six- month period; however, if the amount on which the penalty was
waived remains unpaid 30 days after its due date, the penalty charge will be
reinstated.
('74 Code, § 27-160) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1251, passed 6-5-01;
Am. Ord. 1283, passed 8-5-03)
§ 50.32 NON PAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills for gas service shall be rendered monthly and shall be
delinquent after the tenth day of the month following their rendition.
Extensions will be provided for Sundays and legal holidays. There will be a
delinquent re-connection charge of $10.
   (B)   When the bill of any gas customer becomes delinquent, the City Clerk
shall notify the customer in writing by United States postal mail, with proper
postage affixed thereon, that the gas service is to be terminated. The notice
specifically shall inform the user of the following and shall be in the form
determined by the hearing officer designated below:
      (1)   The hearing officer will be appointed by the Mayor from time to
time.
      (2)   The customer may contact the Clerk to request a hearing on the
matter; and
      (3)   The request must be made within three days of receipt of the
termination notice; and
      (4)   If the request is made, a hearing will be held within ten days of
the receipt of the delinquent notice; and
      (5)   The service will be discontinued on the first day of the month
following delinquency if no request for a hearing is made.
   (C)   In the event a customer requests a hearing before termination of
service for nonpayment of a delinquent gas bill, the Clerk shall, at the time
the request is made, advise the person of the time, place and date for the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer. The hearing
officer shall examine evidence submitted by the customer and by the city and on
the basis thereof make findings as to the status of the customer's account.
   (D)   If the findings reached at the hearing are adverse to the customer,
the findings shall be promptly reduced to writing, with a copy thereof to be
forwarded by the customer and owner of the property served, by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. The notice also should contain the
date on which service to the customer will be discontinued.
   (E)   Gas service to a residential user shall, in no event, be disconnected
for nonpayment of bills when the Springfield, Illinois, National Weather
Service forecast for the following 24 hours forecasts the temperature to be 20°
Fahrenheit or lower or on any day preceding a holiday or weekend when such a
forecast indicates the temperature will be 20° Fahrenheit or below during the
holiday or weekend.
('74 Code, § 27-161) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1251, passed 6-5-01;
Am. Ord. 1283, passed 8-5-03)
§ 50.33 RE-CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   A re-connection charge shall be paid to the city to restore natural
gas service any time it has been disconnected or discontinued, except for
purposes of general safety.
   (B)   The delinquent re-connection charge shall be paid in the amount stated
in §
50.32 when service was terminated for nonpayment of a delinquent bill.
   (C)   (1)   If gas service has been stopped, shut off or terminated due to
delinquency, it shall not again be turned on or reinstated until the customer
or owner has paid a re-connection charge as follows.
         (a)   If the re-connection is prior to 3:30 p.m., the customer or
owner shall pay a fee in the amount of $25 for the first re-connection in a
calendar year and $50 for each additional re-connection in the calendar year.
         (b)   If the re-connection is after 3:30 p.m., the customer or owner
shall pay an additional $50 in each instance.
      (2)   At the time of the first re-connection, the customer or owner will
be required to sign an acknowledgment that the customer or owner is aware that
if additional re-connection fees are required in the calendar year, each
additional re-connection fee will be $50 before 3:30 p.m. or $100 after 3:30
p.m.
      (3)   If the customer or owner refuses to sign the acknowledgment, the
refusal shall be noted by the City Clerk and placed on record.
   (D)   If a property is vacant and gas service is not used for a period of
more than 12 months, the voluntary re-connection charge must be paid but the
retroactive monthly facility charges will not be assessed unless they are part
of an unpaid bill incurred while the service was active.
   (E)   A $50 reactivation fee shall be assessed if a resident requests the
gas be shut off and reconnected.
('74 Code, § 27-162) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1251, passed 6-5-01;
Am. Ord. 1324, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 1399, passed 4-21-09)
§ 50.34 DEPOSIT.
   A deposit in an amount as shall be established from time to time by the City
Council shall be made with each application for natural gas service, as
provided in §
50.23. These sums shall be retained by the city to ensure payment of all bills.
When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently, this deposit, minus
any amount still due the city for gas service, shall be refunded without
interest. Where any applicant for gas service is the owner of the premises to
be served, no such deposit shall be required.
('74 Code, § 27-157) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.35 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   All connections to the city gas utility system shall be made by the
city. The city shall charge for connecting ¾-inch or smaller taps to an
existing main in an amount as shall be established from time to time by the
City Council, for installation of a service line up to 100 feet in length. For
installation of service lines in excess of 100 feet, the city will charge
additionally on a time and materials basis for installing the line and
equipment.
   (B)   Service lines, regulators, meters, stop cocks and other fittings
larger than those required for a standard connection shall be paid for by the
applicant at the actual cost to the city at the time of application.
('74 Code, § 27-177) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.36 BUDGET PLAN FOR BILL PAYMENT.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a budget payment plan for the users of the
gas system. Persons may avail themselves of this plan by making application to
the City Clerk on a form especially for that purpose. The form shall be
approximately as follows:
   “APPLICATION FOR BUDGET PLAN
   FOR GAS USERS
   No.        Date      20   
   I hereby make application to the City of Pittsfield for the budget payment
plan for              . It is understood that I will be billed for the utility
in equal monthly payments as noted below, starting with the next monthly bill.
It also is understood and agreed that if the payments agreed upon seem to be
grossly miscalculated, they may be adjusted by the City Clerk upon ten days
notice.
   It is further understood and agreed that in May each year the Clerk shall
review the payments, and, if there is any amount due the city, it shall be
billed on the May bill as well as the readjusted budget amount for the next
year. If there is a balance due the user, it shall be allowed on the May bill.
                  Signed:             
            Amount of payment: $      
(The application form shall provide a space for the date and the amount of
annual adjustments.)
   (B)   The Clerk shall file all budget applications, with account numbers, in
a post binder properly marked “Budget Payment Accounts” and shall so note on
the customer billing ledger sheet and the amount.
   (C)   The Clerk shall compute the estimated amount for a whole year in
advance. In the event the application is filed later than May, the Clerk shall
take into consideration the time elapsed after May 1 in order to establish a
realistic estimate.
   (D)   Only applicants for budget payments who are property owners and who
have a good record for prompt payment of utilities bills shall be approved for
budget payments under this section.
   (E)   Any person applying for and receiving the budget form of payment plan
and who refuses to abide by the terms of this section or who shall become
delinquent, shall have his or her services discontinued until all accounts with
the city have been paid in full, including a reconnection charge as established
from time to time by the City Council for each service disconnected.
('74 Code, § 27-4) (Ord. 575, passed 9-4-56)
METERS AND APPURTENANCES
§ 50.45 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No free gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall
be nondis- criminatory, provided that the City Council reserves the right to
impose special rates and charges where particular circumstances render the
regular rates and charges where particular circumstances render the regular
rates inadequate or unjust. If the city would elect to supply itself with gas
for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged against the city and
payment made from the funds thereof to the gas fund.
   (B)   All gas service shall be measured with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of standard design and may
be of the diaphragm, rotary or turbine type properly used at the discretion of
the city's Gas Superintendent. The measurement pressure base shall be seven
inches water column. The temperature base shall be 60° Fahrenheit.
   (C)   All meters shall be placed and installed as to render them accessible
at all times for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters shall be set
outside of the buildings where practical. Indoor installations shall be vented
with an adequate vent extending to the outside and shall be approved in writing
by the Superintendent before doing the work.
   (D)   Estimated meter readings shall not be used, except in the case of
meter failure or proven inaccuracy and only in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Monthly accounting for all metered gas compared to gas purchases shall
be done by the City Clerk and reported in writing to the Superintendent.
   (F)   An installation fee of $200 for the first 100 lineal feet and an
additional fee of $.30 per foot after the first 100 lineal feet will be charged
for each new meter installed.
   (G)   If the service is required on a steel gas line
and a contractor is required to make the gas tap, the customer shall be
responsible for all contractor costs charged to the city.
('74 Code, § 27-167) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 8-16-05)
§ 50.46 SEPARATE METERS FOR SEPARATE PREMISES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any gas service pipe or
transmit gas supplied by the natural gas system of the city into more than one
distinct premises, dwelling or consumer unit from one meter. Each dwelling unit
in apartment buildings or duplex dwellings shall be serviced by individual
meters. The City Council shall have the right to establish special services or
service connections as may be necessary or desired for large users or for the
convenience of the city.
('74 Code, § 27-166) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
  § 50.47 METER READING RESULTS CONCLUSIVE.
   (A)   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by
the meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the fault of the city shall be
included under the liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive provided,
when a meter is found to have a positive average error (i.e., is fast) in
excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city shall
refund to the customer an amount equal to the excess charged for the gas
incorrectly metered, for a period of half the time elapsed since the last
previous test, but not to exceed six months. No part of a minimum or facility
charge will be refunded.
   (B)   When a meter is found to have a negative average error (i.e., is slow)
in excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city may make
a charge to the customer for the gas incorrectly metered for a period equal to
half the time elapsed since the last previous test, but not to exceed six
months.
   (C)   If a meter is found not to register or to partially register for any
period, the city shall estimate the charge for the gas used by averaging the
amounts registered over similar periods, preceding or subsequent thereto or
over corresponding periods in previous years, all of which shall recognize
weather conditions and degree day deficiencies. The action shall be taken only
in cases of substantial importance where the city is not at fault for allowing
the incorrect meter to be in service.
('74 Code, § 27-168) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.48 TESTING.
   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of the
meter then in use on their premises. The tests will be made by the city without
charge, provided the meter has not been tested within five years preceding such
a request.
('74 Code, § 27-169) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.49 ACCESSIBILITY FOR INSPECTION.
   At all reasonable hours meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures and
appurtenances connected to the system and located on private property shall be
open to inspection by the proper officers or employees of the city. Any part
found to be defective or not in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be immediately repaired or corrected. Service may be
discontinued without notice at any time when conditions of the privately owned
facilities create danger or hazard.
('74 Code, § 27-170) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.50 DAMAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a meter, regulator or other equip- ment of a service
connection which has been installed by the city is found to have been damaged
for any cause the damages shall become the liability of the customer who shall
pay the city the actual cost of removal, repairing and/or replacing of the
damaged equipment, where damage was not caused by the city.
   (B)   In the event the damage has caused inaccurate metering, the gas bills
shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for herein.
   (C)   The customer will receive a written warning for a first offense of
this section.
(‘74 Code, § 27-171) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1665, passed 10-6-20)
§ 50.51 TAMPERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to
break the seal of any meter or in any manner to make any alterations, changes
or repairs on the same or to open any mains, laterals, service pipe, stop
cocks, valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any
work on either or any of them without authority from the city or its properly
authorized agent.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section or who
shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property connected with the
gas system of the city shall be subject to the penalty prescribed herein.
   (C)   Tampering shall include any type of confinement, enclosure, covering
over, surface sealing or changing of the environment relative to any parts of
the as system or equipment of the city.
   (D)   Tampering shall become the liability of the customer who shall pay the
city the actual cost of removal, repairing and/or replacing equipment or
material.
('74 Code, § 27-172) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
PIPES; MAINS AND APPURTENANCES; CONNECTIONS
§ 50.60 EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   (A)   The city shall not be required to extend service within the city
limits a distance of more than 200 feet per customer and only then when
sufficient funds are available in excess of those required for the proper
operation of the system. Extension of mains and services outside the city
limits shall be subject to approval of the City Council and also shall be
subject to all of the rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein
or as may be amended. All mains, lines and equipment immediately shall become
the property of the city.
   (B)   If an extension of the city's gas distribution system is necessary to
provide gas service to an applicant or a group of applicants the city shall,
upon written request for service by the applicants, without charge, make the
necessary main extension to the nearest point adjacent to the premises of the
applicants, if the gas main extension required does not exceed 200 lineal feet
for each applicant or customer to be served. The city may require the applicant
or group of applicants to deposit with the city the estimated cost of the
extension in excess of the free limit. The Council shall rule on this as
individual cases come about and will evaluate the total cost of extending this
main with city money and set the payments from the customer in the amounts of
principal and interest charged, by monthly payments or otherwise.
('74 Code, § 27-176) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
Cross-references:
   Placement of objectionable waste, see §
51.02(A)
   Extraterritorial extensions of utility lines, see §
52.03
§ 50.61 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The city hereby adopts the requirements of the federal and state pipeline
safety acts as its specifications base. Gas service connections made to the
mains of the system of the city shall comply with requirements and regulations
set forth within the Pipeline Safety Acts and related Pipeline Safety
Standards.
('74 Code, § 27-178) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
§ 50.62 PIPES IN OR NEAR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The ownership of and responsibility for city natural gas piping
terminates at the outlet of the customer meter.
   (B)   All house piping shall be of rigid construction. The pipe from the
outlet of the meter shall be of black iron pipe of not less than one inch
inside diameter and shall enter the house wall by means of a suitable metal
strap or clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from the outlet connection of
the meter, or, if extended along the outside wall, shall be fastened to the
wall at intervals sufficient to make the piping rigid throughout. In instances
where piping from meters enters the wall, the interior end shall be securely
fastened so the pipe will not turn when fittings at the meter are put on. The
final tie-in of the gas line to the meter shall be made by the city.
   (C)   The city herewith adopts as its rules and regulations the safety
practices set forth by the National Fire Protection Association, in the latest
revision of the National Fuel Gas Code, NFPA 54, as though those provisions
were fully repeated and set forth herein.
   (D)   No surface may be constructed or placed over a gas service line or
main which may produce a seal to a building wall or foundation.
   (E)   All buried natural gas piping facilities owned or served by the city
and distribution appur-tenances shall conform to the latest revisions of NFPA
54 and the Minimum Federal Safety Standards Part 192 CFR 49 as through set
forth fully herein. The minimum standards shall apply equally to private buried
facilities and distribution appurtenances. No natural gas piping may be placed
or remain beneath any building or sealed surface except in a specified vented
casing.
   (F)   No ground wire of any type may be or remain attached to any natural
gas piping whether it is private or city owned. The prohibition includes
interior piping in buildings.
   (G)   No meter, regulator or any part of a meter setting may be painted or
otherwise coated by a customer without written approval of the Super- intendent
on a case by case basis. Special coatings are required to prevent shorting of
insulators.
   (H)    Piping from the customer side (outlet side) of the natural gas meter,
through the foundation, to the customer’s first appliance (stove, hot water
heater, furnace, and the like) must be a minimum of one-inch-diameter black
pipe. The city will not approve the connection or discontinue service, upon
discovery of a possible violation of this section that may create any type of
safety hazard, including venting. The customer will have up to 45 days from the
date of discovery to make the appropriate correction(s), depending on the
severity of the violation.
(‘74 Code, § 27-179) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87; Am. Ord. 1645, passed 11-19-
19)
§ 50.63 ORDER FOR SERVICE LINES.
   The size, length and location of the service shall be accurately shown on
the service order and the house number of the premises for which the service is
to be installed always shall be shown on the service order.
('74 Code, § 27-180) (Ord. 721, passed 9-3-63)
§ 50.64 LAYOUT OF LINES.
   Gas services shall be run in the most direct way, avoiding turns and angles
wherever possible.
('74 Code, § 27-181) (Ord. 721, passed 9-6-63)
§ 50.65 QUALITY OF PIPE; INSPECTION.
   All pipe used in the construction of service shall be of good grade or
merchant steel and shall be in accordance with the city's standard coating and
wrapping specifications. After the service is completed, all joints shall be
tested with soap suds, then coated and wrapped to the satisfaction of the Gas
Department.
('74 Code, § 27-182) (Ord. 721, passed 9-6-63)
JOINT MUNICIPAL GAS AGENCY
§ 50.80 AGENCY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city hereby finds and determines that it is in its best interest
to join with other municipalities in the state to form a municipal gas agency,
under and pursuant to the provisions of the state Joint Municipal Natural Gas
Act, contained at ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-119.2-1 et seq., as amended, for
the purpose of undertaking the planning, financing, ownership, and operation of
a project or projects to supply gas and energy for the needs of the
participating municipalities;
   (B)   Any municipality listed on Exhibit 1, attached to Ord. 1107, passed 6-
2-92, which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this
section, which passes an ordinance on or prior to June 2, 1992, authorizing the
execution of an agency agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit 2,
attached to Ord. 1107, passed 6-2-92, which is also hereby adopted by reference
as if fully set forth in this section, shall be authorized to become a member
of the municipality gas agency, as defined and provided by the agency
agreement.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute, and the City
Clerk shall attest, pursuant this ordinance, the agency agreement,
substantially in the form of said Exhibit 2, for the formation of a municipal
gas agency with one or more of the municipalities listed on said Exhibit 1, and
with such other municipalities subsequently becoming a member of the municipal
gas agency pursuant to the Agency Agreement, said officer by executing the
agency agreement.
   (D)   By this section, the Gas Committee Chairman has been duly appointed by
the Mayor and is hereby authorized to serve as the representative of the city
on the municipal gas agency's board of directors.
(Ord. 1107, passed 6-2-92)
Editor's note:
   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this section authorize
additional municipalities to become members of the joint municipal gas agency,
but are not directly amendatory of this section. For those ordinances, see the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.05,
50.20 through
50.23,
50.30 through
50.35,
50.45 through
50.51 and
50.60 through
50.65 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in an
amount not less than $50 nor more than $750. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. The
foregoing penalties shall be in addition to any other costs levied or assessed
against the excavator by reason of the violation of any ordinance or statute.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
50.05 though
50.10 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750.
('74 Code, § 27-145) (Ord. 1060, passed 7-21-87)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS; WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Placement of objectionable waste
   
51.03   Discharges into natural outlets
   
51.04   Septic tanks, cesspools and the like
   
51.05   Toilet facilities required
   
51.06   Industrial process and cooling waters
   
51.07   Storm water and unpolluted drainage
   
51.08   Substances prohibited for discharge
   
51.09   Superintendent's recourse
   
51.10   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.11   Maintenance of pre-treatment and flow equalizing facilities
   
51.12   Manholes required by industries
   
51.13   Proof of compliance
   
51.14   Standards methods of measuring and testing
   
51.15   Special agreements
   
51.16   Private sewage disposal
   
51.17   Building sewers and connections; permits
   
51.18   Damage
   
51.19   Inspections
   
51.20   Records
   
51.21   State highway storm sewers
Rates and Charges; Funds
   
51.30   Basic user rate
   
51.31   Surcharge rate
   
51.32   Computation of surcharge
   
51.33   Billing
   
51.34   Lien; notice of delinquency
   
51.35   Foreclosure
   
51.36   Revenue
   
51.37   Accounts
   
51.38   Connection charges for certain lots
   
51.39   Wastewater service charges
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the Sewerage Department of the
city.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand. The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20° Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. These are defined in any applicable NPDES permit. See
NPDES.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, as
contained in the Clean Water Act of 1977.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will be
separated by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pre-treatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE shall mean the wastes from the preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and that have been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g. of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis. See PPM.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water- course, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the federal act.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in “Standard
Methods.”
   ppm. Parts per million, by weight. See MILLIGRAMS PER LITER.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   SEWAGE. This word is used interchangeably with wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm surface and ground water drainage.
      (3)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the city. It also shall include sewers within or outside the city boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary
(or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with city funds.
      (4)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of both and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (5)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SEWER FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in operation of the sewerage system.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater” published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association and Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state's participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and
for making the grants as filed with the Illinois Secretary of State.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge, if
applicable, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in § 51.40.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in §
51.14.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge into the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity discharging
wastewater to the public sewer.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   USER CLASS. The type of user; residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial, as defined below:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments or
places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL. Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/
GOVERNMENTAL. Schools, hospitals, churches, penal institutions and users
associated with federal, state and local governments.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multifamily dwellings.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. WASTEWATER may be a combination
of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, with any groundwater, surface water and
storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on all the users of the
wastewater facilities. It shall be computed as outlined in § 51.40 and shall
consist of the total of the basic user charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used synonymously
with wastewater treatment plant or pollution control plant.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. As defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
('74 Code, § 27-76) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.02 PLACEMENT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
('74 Code, § 27-77) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DISCHARGES INTO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 27-77) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage,
except as provided in §
51.05.
('74 Code, § 27-77) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there now is or may in the future be
located any public sanitary sewer of the city is hereby required, at his or her
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to hire a licensed
plumber to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided the public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line.
('74 Code, § 27-77) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS AND COOLING WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 STORM WATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
sewers specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FOR DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to public structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, mild containers and the like either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department, the wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process capacity of sewage treatment plant, degree of treata- bility of wastes
in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by regulator
agencies. Those prohibited substances are:
      (1)   Any liquid vapor having a temperature higher than 150° Fahrenheit.
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic of poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°
Fahrenheit.
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower or
greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrating plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
other similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to the degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Superintendent for the materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for discharge into the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
that may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate.)
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions)
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or con- centrations of wastes
constituting slugs.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge of
the receiving waters.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 SUPERINTENDENT'S RECOURSE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.08(B) and which, in the judgement of the Superintendent of the Sewerage
Department, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge into
the public sewers.
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
51.14.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.10 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients. The interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 MAINTENANCE OF PRE-TREATMENT AND FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner's expense.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84)
   (B)   The volume of wastewater flow used for computing basic user charges
and surcharges shall be the metered consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 100 gallons, and, if applicable, one or more or all of the
following:
      (1)   If the user discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the city waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into public sewers, the user shall
install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Water Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the Superin- tendent of the Sewerage Department if these volumes
cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the user. Following approval and
installation, the meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department.
('74 Code, § 27-97) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 MANHOLES REQUIRED BY INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole. When
required by the Superintend- ent of the Sewerage Department, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole, together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
     (B)   The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superin-
tendent.
   (C)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at the owner's expense,
and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (1)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once a year the industry shall supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to ensure compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met.
      (2)   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the city at the times and in the manner as prescribed by the city.
      (3)   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city.
   (B)   At the times deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 STANDARDS METHODS OF MEASURING AND TESTING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater”, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event no special manhole has been required, the control manhole
shall be considered the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
   (D)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
should be taken.
('74 Code, § 27-80) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with §
51.30 by the industrial concern, provided that the payments are in accordance
with state and federal guidelines for a user charge system.
('74 Code, § 27-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.05(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner first shall obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent of the Sewerage Department. The application for the permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement
by any plans, specifications and other information deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 72 hours of the receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the Pike County Health Department's current sewer
ordinance and regulations and with all recommendations of the State Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, and with the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (E)   When a public sewer becomes available to property served by a private
sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this subchapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City Health
Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank-run gravel or dirt.
('74 Code, § 27-78) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Extraterritorial extension of utilities lines, see §
52.03
§ 51.17 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent of the
Sewerage Department. Any connections made after approval of the Superintendent
shall be made by a licensed plumber.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the federal
act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or the owner's agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city.
      (1)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information pertinent in the judgement of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $100 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the city when the application is filed.
      (3)   The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, shall provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will be issued and a sewer connection shall be
allowed only if it can be demonstrated the downstream sewerage facilities,
including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities have
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional
anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   The size and slope shall conform to the following standards:
 
Minimum Slope         Size and Type (inches per 100 feet)
4-inch building sewer 9
6-inch building sewer 6
8-inch sewer main     5
 
   (I)   Installation required for division (H) above shall be per the current
edition of “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois”.
   (J)   The material of construction shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Cast or ductile iron soil pipe, ASTM A74-72 with leaded or
mechanical joints.
      (2)   Vitrified clay improved bell sewer pipe, ASTM C-599-74.
      (3)   Schedule 40 PVC-DWV pipe, ASTM C2665-74.
      (4)   ABS truss pipe, ASTM D2680-70 (acrylonitrile-bitadienestyrene)
composite sewer piping.
      (5)   4-inch and 6-inch diameter shall be extra strength solid wall.
   (K)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the building drain
shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with division (B)
above and discharged to the building sewer.
   (L)   No one shall make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground- water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (M)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federa- tion Manual of Practice Number 9 and Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall
be made gas- tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials shall be approved by the Superintendent before
installation.
   (N)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative.
   (O)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (P)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall, at its own expense,
obtain any easements necessary for installing, operating, maintaining and
repairing any building sewer and shall provide proof of the same to the city
prior to any connection to the public sewer.
(‘74 Code, § 27-79) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 1487, passed 3-5-13;
Am. Ord. 1540, passed 5-5-15) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
('74 Code, § 27-81) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Sewerage Department and other duly
authorized employees of the city, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall have no authority
to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent, representatives of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence
and failure of the company to maintain safe conditions, as required in §
51.12.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credential and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement of
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
('74 Code, § 27-82) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 RECORDS.
   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges for the
purpose of making an audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
state grant.
('74 Code, § 27-109) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 STATE HIGHWAY STORM SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect or
cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste water, or any fixture or
device discharging polluting substances into any storm sewer system constructed
as part of a state highway.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES; FUNDS
§ 51.30 BASIC USER RATE.
   (A)   Generally. There shall be and hereby is established a minimum charge
and a basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
and sewer facilities of the city. The applicable rates shall be established
from time to time by the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on
file and be available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Rates effective May 1, 2003. All property upon which any building has
been or may hereafter be erected, having a connection with any mains or pipes
which may be hereafter constructed and used in connection with the city sewer
system, shall pay the following rates per calendar month:
 
For Sewer Service:
First 2,000 gal.    $5.46 (minimum bill)
All over 2,000 gal. $2.46/1,000 gal.
 
   (C)   Future rate increases.  All sewer service shall be increased each May
1 beginning May 1, 2004, at a rate equal to the consumer price index then
established.
('74 Code, § 27-98) (Ord. 1044, passed 12-3-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 10-21-86;
Am. Ord. 1150, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-17-02) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be established from time to
time by the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on file and be
available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
('74 Code, § 27-99) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.32 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent of the Sewerage Department and
shall be binding as a basis for surcharges. Surcharges shall apply only to
wastes having concentrations in excess of 200 mg/l of BOD and/or in excess of
250 mg/l of SS (normal sewage strength).
('74 Code, § 27-100) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
   (B)   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the formula CW = CM
+ (Vu - X)CU + CS.
      (1)   CW is the amount of the wastewater service charge ($) per billing
period.
      (2)   CM is the minimum charge for operation, maintenance and
replacement.
      (3)   Vu is the wastewater volume for the billing period.
      (4)   X is the allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge.
      (5)   CU is the basic user rate for operation, maintenance and
replacement.
      (6)   Amount of surcharge.
('74 Code, § 27-101) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.33 BILLING.
   (A)   Rates and charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly
and severally liable to pay for the service to the premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition the owner,
occupant and user are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent by the City Clerk on or before
the first day of the month succeeding the period for which the service is
billed.
   (C)   All sewer bills are due and payable on the tenth day of the month
after being sent. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the
due date.
('74 Code, § 27-102) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 60 days for
monthly service after it has been rendered, the City Clerk shall file with the
County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill and a notice the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all
charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed the owner of the premises,
if the owner's address is known to the Clerk, whenever the bill remains unpaid
for 30 days for a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record the lien or to mail the notice, or
the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in divisions (A) and (B)
above.
('74 Code, § 27-103) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.35 FORECLOSURE.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment
of the charges. Proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after
deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. The
foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city. The City
Attorney is authorized and directed to institute the proceedings in the name of
the city in any court having jurisdiction over the matters against any property
for which the bill has remained unpaid 90 days in the case of a monthly bill
after it has been rendered.
('74 Code, § 27-104) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.36 REVENUE.
   (A)   All revenue and money derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewer fund of the city. All revenue and money
shall be held by the City Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the
city and all of the sum shall be delivered by the City Treasurer not more than
30 days after receipt of it, or at more frequent intervals as may, from time to
time, be directed by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall receive all revenue from the sewerage system and
all other funds and money incident to the operation of the system as they may
be delivered to him or her and deposit them in the account of the city sewer
fund. The Treasurer shall administer the fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the state Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
('74 Code, § 27-105) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 ACCOUNTS.
     (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system and
at regular annual intervals the Treasurer shall cause to be made, by an
independent auditing concern, an audit of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall establish, in lump sum, an account in the amount
of $23,500 to be put in the account named “Sewer Replacement and Reserve Fund.”
The lump sum shall be put on deposit. The deposit and interest earned from this
account shall be kept in this account for replacement parts or machinery or any
other replacements needed at the sewer plant.
('74 Code, § 27-106) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 1151, passed 3-21-
95) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 CONNECTION CHARGES FOR CERTAIN LOTS.
   (A)   All corner lots, lots of abnormal size and other lots that have a
particular or peculiar situation shall be treated individually according to the
facts concerned, taking into consideration the city's investment and no
decision shall be made whereby any portion ultimately will be waived.
   (B)   For example:
      (1)   A corner lot of 80 feet by 160 feet with improvements constructed
on both sides normally would be subject to 80 plus 160 feet or 240 feet. For
the purpose of this section, the lot shall be subject to the 80 feet of
frontage in addition to 80 feet on the side for the rear part where a future
building may be constructed, and subject to the recovery of funds invested.
      (2)   The same corner lot as described in division (A) above with
construction or building located so as to take up the major portion of the lot
(not evenly divided on the 160 feet) shall be subject to the 160 feet.
      (3)   Long lots where there is a considerable amount of frontage that is
considered an integral part of the improvements and likely not to be broken up
shall be subject to the whole front.
      (4)   Long lots or properties where the improvement is located so as to
make a building lot of a reasonable size, according to zoning requirements, may
be detached for the purpose of this section. In the event this lot is not so
used within ten years, the remainder shall become due and payable and shall be
deemed a lien on the property.
('74 Code, § 27-126) (Ord. 995, passed 10-6-81)
§ 51.39 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of the sum of a basic
user charge to pay for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt
service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be computed by dividing the estimated
coming year's operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement costs, by the
total metered water usage of the city estimated for the coming year. The
metered water usage shall be recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters and
the basic user charge shall be based on wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20° Centigrade BOD of 200 mg/l.
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance costs and replacement costs shall be
computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the coming years' costs required to operate and maintain
the wastewater facilities, including costs for a replacement fund for all of
the wastewater and sewer facilities works categories.
      (2)   Proportion the estimated coming years' costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, SS and BOD, if possible.
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
      (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial
users by volume, SS and BOD.
      (5)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons of normal sewage
strength.
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound in excess of normal sewage
strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastewater exceeds the
normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water used as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters, for
all wastes which exceed the normal concentrations. The adequacy of the
wastewater service charge shall be reviewed annually. The wastewater service
charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in operation and
maintenance costs.
('74 Code, § 27-96) (Ord 1031, passed 10-16-84)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)(1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.11(A),
51.12 through
51.17 and
51.19 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the time period stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of those sections.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $750 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of the sections
identified in division (A)(1) above shall be liable to the city by reason of
the violation.
('74 Code, § 27-83) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-16-84)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
51.11(B),
51.30 through
51.38 and 51.40 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $1,000 for each offense.
('74 Code, § 27-108) (Ord. 1031, passed 10-16-84)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Standards for water and sewer main construction
   
52.02   Territorial application
   
52.03   [Reserved]
   
52.04   Fluoridation
   
52.05   Application for service
   
52.06   Service turn-on by authorized person
   
52.07   Easement
   
52.08   Compliance with plumbing standards
   
52.09   City's liability when system fails
   
52.10   Resale
   
52.11   Obstructing or interfering with system
   
52.12   Temporary interruption of service
   
52.13   Lawns and gardens
   
52.14   Construction sites
   
52.15   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
Rates; Charges; Fees and the Like
   
52.25   Monthly rates
   
52.26   Minimum rates
   
52.27   Fire protection service; rate
   
52.28   Bulk service rates
   
52.29   Charges for broken meters
   
52.30   Deposit
   
52.31   Service connection permit; fee
   
52.32   [Reserved]
   
52.33   Reimbursement for construction of mains
   
52.34   Depreciation and reserve fund
   
52.35   Billing
   
52.36   Delinquent payments
   
52.37   Water service charges
   
52.38   Revenues
   
52.39   Accounts
   
52.40   Access to records
   
52.41   Definitions
Service Pipes
   
52.50   Standards
   
52.51   Cost of repairs
   
52.52   Excavation; laying of pipes
Meters
   
52.60   Required; exceptions
   
52.61   Installation
   
52.62   Access by city personnel
   
52.63   Testing
   
52.64   Readings
Backflow Prevention
   
52.75   Recommendation of Water Superintendent
   
52.76   Private, auxiliary or emergency water supply
   
52.77   Industrial sites
   
52.78   Access by Cross Connection Control Device Inspector
   
52.79   Disconnection of service
   
52.80   Customer liability
   
52.81   Written approval required for corrective action or installation of
protective device
   
52.82   Elimination of cross-connections
   
52.83   Notice of violation
   
52.84   Compliance
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 STANDARDS FOR WATER AND SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of standardizing the construction of water
mains, storm sewers and sanitary sewers in the city, and to reduce the time
required to prepare, review and approve the specifications for the
construction, the following published specifications are hereby adopted as the
standard specifications for construction within the city, as now or hereafter
existing, or for any such construction which is to be a part of the public
works systems of the city for maintenance and operation: “Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois,” First
Edition, dated August 1, 1967, as prepared by the Illinois Society of
Professional Engineers, Consulting Engineers Council of Illinois, the Illinois
Chapter of the American Public Works Association, the Illinois Municipal League
and the Associated General Contractors of Illinois, with the cooperation of the
Illinois Sanitary Water Board and the Illinois Department of Public Health, and
any subsequent published revisions or additions to the standard specifications.
      (2)   In all instances where water mains are installed, the installation
shall be made with cast iron pipe.
   (B)   Standard Drawings 1 through 18 in the publication adopted in division
(A)(1) above are excluded from adoption under this section. Standard drawings
showing typical details for the construction of water and sewer mains and
appurtenances shall be prepared by the City Engineer and, when approved by the
City Council, shall be considered the same as having been adopted as city
standards under this section.
   (C)   As provided for in the standard specifications adopted in division (A)
(1) above, the specifications may be modified or supplemented by special
provisions, which must be approved by the Council for each specific project.
   (D)   Copies of the standard specifications and drawings adopted in this
section shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and the City
Engineer for inspection by interested parties.
('74 Code, § 27-1) (Ord. 825, passed 4-7-70; Am. Ord. 861, passed 7-25-72)
§ 52.02 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern all water users, whether the
premises served is within or outside the city. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to require the city to supply water service to any premises outside
the city.
('74 Code, § 27-17) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.03 [RESERVED]
§ 52.04 FLUORIDATION.
   A source of fluoride ion, approved by the State Department of Health, shall
be added to the water supply of the city under the rules and regulations of the
department, which addition shall be administered by the City Department of
Public Works in a manner approved by the County Department of Public Health.
('74 Code, § 27-18) (Ord. 589, passed 4-2-57)
§ 52.05 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Application to have city water turned on shall be made in writing to the
City Clerk and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the city water supply by the applicant.
('74 Code, § 27-20) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.06 SERVICE TURN-ON BY AUTHORIZED PERSON.
   No water from the city water supply system shall be turned on for service
into any premises by any person but the Superintendent of Water or some person
authorized by the Superintendent to perform the service.
('74 Code, § 27-19) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.07 EASEMENT.
   In the event that any request is made for water service and an easement is
required for the service pipes, the applicant for the service shall secure the
easement for the benefit of the city with conditions the city may prescribe,
all without cost to the city.
('74 Code, § 27-21) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.08 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING STANDARDS; WATER USE AT CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   No water shall be turned on for service to premises in which the plumbing
does not comply with the code for standards for plumbing as promulgated by the
State Department of Public Health, as amended from time to time.
('74 Code, § 27-23) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.09 CITY’S LIABILITY WHEN SYSTEM FAILS.
   All connections and water service applied for under this chapter and all
water used shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus, or
appurtenances connected with the system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakup of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewal.
('74 Code, § 27-26) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
Cross-reference:
   Temporary interruption of service, see §
52.12
§ 52.10 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
city supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made
and the meter installed, except in case of emergency.
('74 Code, § 27-27) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.11 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct the access to any stopcock, hydrant or valve
or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street, alley, public
ground or place connected with or part of the city water system, nor pile or
place any lumber, brick or building material or other article, thing or
hindrance within 12 feet thereof, or so as to hinder, delay or obstruct the
members of the Fire Department in reaching the fixture.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with or
obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water in the city
water system, reservoir or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface,
remove or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shutoff
box, public fountain, valve, engine or building connected with the city water
system or plant, or to cause, suffer or permit any such thing to be done.
('74 Code, § 27-28) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61; Am. Ord. 894, passed 6-4-74)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 TEMPORARY INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to shut off water in the mains at any time
for repairing, cleaning, making connections with or extensions, or for the
concentration of water in any part of the city in case of fire and for
restricting the use of the water in case of a deficiency in the supply.
   (B)   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of
any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from the shutting off of
water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections,
or for repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of the water
supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from the
concentration or restricted use of the water.
('74 Code, § 27-29) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
Cross-reference:
   City's liability when system fails, see §
52.09
§ 52.13 LAWNS AND GARDENS.
   The right of the city is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and
hoses for watering lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the City
Council, public exigencies require it.
('74 Code, § 27-30) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.14 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 27-23) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
   (B)   During the period of any construction, service for water may be
furnished at the bulk service rates prescribed in §
52.28. Application for such connections shall be made to the City Clerk by the
owner and shall be on the same conditions as govern connections generally.
('74 Code, § 27-64) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.15 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date
of the ordinance codified herein, the use or attempt to use as a potable water
supply groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city, as a potable
water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method
is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the City of
Pittsfield.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, Political subdivision, or any legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      (2)   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 1425, passed 9-7-10; Am. Ord. 1485, passed 2-19-13; Am. Ord. 1512, passed
4-1-14; Am. Ord. 1538, passed 4-7-15) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES; CHARGES; FEES AND THE LIKE
§ 52.25 MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Rates effective May 1, 2003. All property upon which any building has
been or may hereafter be erected, having a connection with any mains or pipes
which may be hereafter constructed and used in connection with the city water
system, shall pay the following rates per calendar month:
 
For Water Service:    
First 2,000 gal.     $8.19 (minimum bill)
Next 8,000 gal.      $3.28/1,000 gal.
Next 10,000 gal.     $2.73/1,000 gal.
All over 20,000 gal. $2.18/1,000 gal.
 
   (B)   Future rate increases.  All water service shall be increased each May
1 beginning May 1, 2004, at a rate equal to the consumer price index then
established.
   (C)   Monthly debt assessment charge. Effective May 1, 2010, a monthly debt
assessment charge of $7 per month will be added to the customer’s water bill.
   (D)   Hydrant meter fee.
      (1)   A city resident will be billed a hydrant meter fee in the amount of
$50 plus the regular water consumption rate.
      (2)   An out-of-town resident will be billed a hydrant meter fee in the
amount of $50 plus 1½ times the regular water consumption rate.
      (3)   The amount of the bill will be paid by the person(s) receiving the
bill, whether or not that the person is hauling the water or receiving the
water.
(‘74 Code, § 27-60) (Ord. 994, passed 10-6-81; Am Ord. 1004, passed 7-6-82; Am.
Ord. 1029, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 1272, passed 9-17-02; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 12-15-09; Am. Ord. 1415, passed 4-20-10; Am. Ord. 1548, passed 7-21-15)
§ 52.26 MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   The minimum monthly rate for water service shall be, with the
exception described in division (B) below, as established from time to time by
the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on file and be available
for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   When the customer orders the service discontinued after the regular
reading date and before the next reading date, the month shall be divided as
follows:
      (1)   During the first ten days after the regular reading date, the
customer shall be charged of the minimum, unless there shall have been more
than of the minimum amount of water used. If that occurs, the charge shall be
for the amount used.
      (2)   During the second ten days after the regular reading date the
customer shall be charged of the minimum amount of water used, unless there
shall have been more than of the minimum amount of water used. If that occurs,
the charge shall be for the amount used.
('74 Code, § 27-61) (Ord. 994, passed 10-6-81; Am. Ord. 1004, passed 7-6-82;
Am. Ord. 1029, passed 10-16-84)
§ 52.27 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE; RATE.
   (A)   Where a service is connected to a premises for supplying water to a
sprinkler or other system of protection against fire, a readiness-to-serve fee
for fire service, per month shall be made, as shall be established from time to
time by the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on file and be
available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person using an unmetered sprinkler or
other system for fire protection to tap the service pipe or system for any
other purpose. A tap or connection made to the system shall be deemed a
violation.
('74 Code, § 27-61.1) (Ord. 1004, passed 7-6-82)
§ 52.28 BULK SERVICE RATES.
   The rates for bulk water service shall be established from time to time by
the City Council. All charges and rates shall be kept on file and be available
for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
('74 Code, § 27-62) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61; Am. Ord. 970, passed 11-20-79;
Am. Ord. 994, passed 10-6-81)
§ 52.29 CHARGES FOR BROKEN METERS.
   When any water meter for any cause fails to properly register the water
passing through it, the consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the
corresponding time of the previous year under like conditions. If no record of
the previous year exists, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water
Works to estimate or determine, so far as possible, the amount of water
consumed during the time the water meter failed to operate. The consumer shall
pay the amount so estimated.
('74 Code, § 27-63) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.30 DEPOSIT.
   A deposit in an amount as shall be established from time to time by the City
Council will be made with each application for service. This sum shall be
retained by the city to insure payment of all bills. When service to the
customer is discontinued permanently this deposit, less any amount still due
the city for water service, shall be refunded without interest, provided that
where any applicant for water service is the owner of the premises to be
served, no deposit shall be required.
('74 Code, § 27-22) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61; Am. Ord. 970, passed 11-20-79)
§ 52.31 SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   No connection with a water main shall be made without a permit being
issued and 48 hours notice having been given to the Water Superintendent.
   (B)   All connections shall be made and all such work done at the expense of
the city, who shall furnish all necessary materials to bring the water
connection to the nearest property line of the property to be served, or 60
feet. The city shall not be obligated to bring water connections more than 60
feet from the water main, and all further extensions of the connection shall be
made and work done at the expense of the applicant, provided that the work
shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent and no connection shall be
covered until the work has been inspected by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Applications for the connections shall be made to the City Clerk and a
fee in an amount as shall be established from time to time by the City Council
shall be paid for each connection. In the event an additional meter is required
for the premises served, there shall be an additional charge in an amount as
shall be established from time to time by the City Council for each meter.
   (D)   An installation fee in the amount of $850 shall be charged for each
new meter installed. An additional fee of $5 per lineal foot will be assessed
after the first 60 lineal feet. Any inactive service without a meter will be
charged $150 for meter installation.
('74 Code, § 27-24) (Ord. 894, passed 6-4-74; Am. Ord. 970, passed 11-20-79;
Am. Ord. 994, passed 10-6-81; Am. Ord. 1324, passed 8-16-05)
§ 52.32 [RESERVED]
§ 52.33 REIMBURSEMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF MAINS.
   Property owners paying for the cost of construction of water and sewer mains
shall certify the costs of the construction to the City Clerk. If, at any time,
other property owners whose property abuts the constructed main wish to avail
themselves of the services, the property owners shall pay a just cost for the
use thereof. Costs for the use shall be determined by the Water and Sewer
Committee and, upon receiving payment, the Clerk shall reimburse the individual
paying for the original installation.
('74 Code, § 27-2) (Ord. 867, passed 12-19-72)
§ 52.34 DEPRECIATION AND RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A fund is hereby created and shall be known as the Municipal Utilities
Depreciation and Reserve Fund of the city.
   (B)   The fund created by division (A) above is for the specific purpose of
depositing funds appropriated in the annual budget and appropriation ordinance,
reasonable amounts from which shall be provided each year in the budgets of the
various revenue funds.
   (C)   Additional sums considered to be a surplus at the end of each fiscal
year of the various revenue- producing utilities, in excess of reasonable
amounts to provide necessary operating expenses to start the new fiscal year,
shall be deposited in the fund during the last half of April, subject to the
recommendation of the various committees after consultation with the financial
officers of the city.
   (D)   The depreciation or reserve funds to be set aside or provided for by
any outstanding revenue bond ordinances shall be deposited in the fund created
in division (A) above and shall be segregated by a “book entry,” clearly
defining the purpose and ordinance providing for the amount to be specifically
set aside for that purpose and shall not be expended for any other purpose so
long as that particular ordinance is in effect.
   (E)   All deposits from various funds shall be segregated as to origin of
the funds, in addition to those requirements provided for in division (D)
above.
   (F)   Funds deposited to the credit of the fund created by division (A)
above shall be used only for replacing depreciated equipment, plant
improvements, development and expansion of the distribution system or other
necessary items too costly to provide for in the annual budget and
appropriation ordinance and to provide a fund for real emergencies.
   (G)   All funds proposed to be withdrawn from the fund created in division
(A) above shall be by ordinance clearly setting forth the purpose for which it
is to be used and the reasons therefor, passed by a ¾ majority of the City
Council and approved by the Mayor.
   (H)   No funds deposited under the terms of and to the credit of any revenue
bond ordinance shall be withdrawn for any purpose except for and in the
interest of bondholders or upon the recommendation and approval of the City
Engineers and attorneys for the bondholders.
('74 Code, § 27-5) (Ord. 535, passed 7-5-55)
§ 52.35 BILLING.
   Bills for water used shall be dated and sent at the time directed by the
City Council. In the event payment is not made within ten days after issuance
and mailing, a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added. The penalty
shall not be added if the payment has been made during the ten-day period for
the past six months.
('74 Code, § 27-65) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61; Am. Ord. 839, passed 2-16-71)
§ 52.36 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Bills for water and sewer service shall be rendered monthly and shall
be delinquent after the tenth day of the month following their rendition.
Extensions will be provided for Sundays and legal holidays. There will be a
delinquent reconnection charge in an amount as shall be established from time
to time by the City Council.
   (B)   When the bill of any water and sewer customer becomes delinquent for
45 days, the City Clerk shall notify the utility customer in writing by United
States mail, with postage properly affixed thereon, that the water and sewer
service is to be terminated. The notice specifically shall inform the user of
the following and shall be in the form determined by the hearing officer
designated below:
      (1)   The hearing officer will be appointed by the Mayor from time to
time;
      (2)   The customer may contact the Clerk to request a hearing in the
matter;
      (3)   The request must be made within three days of receipt of the
termination notice;
      (4)   If the request is made, a hearing will be held within ten days of
the receipt of the delinquent notice; and
      (5)   The service will be discontinued on the first day of the month
following delinquency if no request for a hearing is made.
   (C)   (1)   If water service has been stopped, shut off or terminated due to
delinquency, it shall not again be turned on or reinstated until the customer
or owner has paid a re-connection charge as follows.
         (a)   If the re-connection is prior to 3:30 p.m., the customer or
owner shall pay a fee in the amount of $25 for the first re-connection in a
calendar year and $50 for each additional re-connection in the calendar year.
         (b)   If the re-connection is after 3:30 p.m., the customer or owner
shall pay an additional $50 in each instance.
      (2)   At the time of the first re-connection, the customer or owner will
be required to sign an acknowledgment that the customer or owner is aware that
if additional re-connection fees are required in the calendar year, each
additional re-connection fee will be $50 before 3:30 p.m., or $100.00 after 3:
30 p.m.
      (3)   If the customer or owner refuses to sign the acknowledgment, the
refusal shall be noted by the City Clerk and placed of record.
   (D)   In the event a customer requests a hearing before termination of
service for nonpayment of a delinquent water and sewer bill, the Clerk shall,
at the time the request is made, advise the person of the time, place and date
for the hearing. The hearing officer shall examine evidence submitted by the
customer and by the city and on the basis thereof make findings as to the
status of the customer's account.
   (E)   If the findings reached at the hearing are adverse to the customer,
they shall be reduced to writing promptly, with a copy to be forwarded by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the customer and to
the owner of the property served. The notice also shall contain the date on
which service to the customer will be discontinued.
('74 Code, § 27-66) (Ord. 970, passed 11-20-79; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 7-21-87;
Am. Ord. 1252, passed 6-5-01; Am. Ord. 1284, passed 8-5-03; Am. Ord. 1383,
passed 8-5-08; Am. Ord. 1401, passed 4-21-09)
§ 52.37 WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less often
than annually, by Certified Public Accountants for the city in their annual
audit report. The water service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in local capital costs or O, M, and R costs.
(Ord. 1200, passed 4-21-98)
§ 52.38 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water system shall
be deposited in the water account of the water fund. All such revenues and
moneys shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from his private
funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the City Treasurer not
more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and Council. The
City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water system and all
other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system as the same may
be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund designated
as the “Water Fund of the City.” The Treasurer shall administer such fund in
every respect in the manner provided by statute of the “Revised Cities and
Villages Act,” effective January, 1942.
(Ord. 1200, passed 4-21-98)
§ 52.39 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at
regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year.
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year.
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (5)   Number of non-metered users.
(Ord. 1200, passed 4-21-98)
§ 52.40 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, paper and records of the city which are applicable to the city
system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts
and transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of any Special
and General Conditions to any State Grant, or Loan Agreement and Rules or any
State Loan).
(Ord. 1200, passed 4-21-98)
§ 52.41 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
      FEDERAL ACT. The Federal 1996 Safe Drinking Water Acts Amendments.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (B)   STATE GOVERNMENT.
      STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE LOAN. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of water works as provided for by the Illinois Anti- Pollution
Bond Act and for making such loans as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   (C)   LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
      ORDINANCE. Ordinance 1200, passed 4-21-98.
      CITY. The City of Pittsfield.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Council of the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (E)   Clarification of word usage:
      SHALL is mandatory;
      MAY is permissible.
   (F)   Water and its characteristics:
      ppm. Part per million by weight.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water constituent.
It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has replaced the unit
formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately
equivalent, in reporting the results of water analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      CURB COCK. A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water
main to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve
key to start or stop flow in the water-supply lines of a building. Also called
curb stop.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      SERVICE BOX. A valve box used with corporation or curb cock.
   (G)   Types of charges:
      WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all users
of the Water Facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
this chapter and shall consist of the total of the Basic User Charge and the
Local Capital Cost if applicable.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of water works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water system.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of any such loan, bond, and the
like outstanding.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the water works.
      LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the Operations
Maintenance and Replacement costs, i.e. Debt service and capital improvement
costs.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
replacement.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the water works will be
operated.
(Ord. 1200, passed 4-21-98)
SERVICE PIPES
§ 52.50 STANDARDS.
   No service piping shall be installed unless it conforms to the code for
standards for plumbing as promulgated by the Department of Public Health of the
state, as it may be amended from time to time, a copy of which shall be kept on
file by the City Clerk and shall be open to inspection by any person
interested.
('74 Code, § 27-39) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.51 COST OF REPAIRS.
   All repairs for service pipes and the plumbing systems of buildings shall be
made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served.
('74 Code, § 27-40) (Ord. 688, passed 10-7-61)
§ 52.52 EXCAVATION; LAYING OF PIPES.
   Excavations for installing or repairing service pipes shall be made in
compliance with the provisions of this code. It shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or
sewer pipe.
('74 Code, § 27-41) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
METERS
§ 52.60 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter furnished by the city. Water service may be supplied by the city at
a flat rate of charge until a meter may be installed. Before any premises is
occupied, a water meter shall be installed as required by this section or
application made for water service at the flat rate of charge until the meter
can be installed or no water shall be furnished the premises.
('74 Code, § 27-48) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.61 INSTALLATION.
   Water meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy to access.
('74 Code, § 27-49) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.62 ACCESS BY CITY PERSONNEL.
   The city and its employees shall have ready access to the premises, places
or buildings where water meters are located for the purpose of reading,
examining, testing and repairing the meters and examining and testing the
consumption, use and flow of water. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct the city or its duly authorized agent in
its duties under this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 27-50) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.63 TESTING.
   Any city water meter shall be removed and tested upon complaint of the
consumer and upon payment of a fee in an amount as shall be established from
time to time by the City Council. If, upon the test, the meter is not within 3%
of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced, and the fee returned to
the consumer.
('74 Code, § 27-51) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
§ 52.64 READINGS.
   The Water Superintendent shall read or cause to be read every water meter
used in the city at times that are necessary so bills may be sent at the proper
time.
('74 Code, § 27-59) (Ord. 688, passed 11-7-61)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.75 RECOMMENDATION OF WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 1977 Ill. Adm. Code § 890.1510.
   (B)   If, in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment
of the Water Superintendent, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Water
Superintendent will give notice to the water customer to install an approved
device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon the installation
and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.76 PRIVATE, AUXILIARY OR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the city, unless
that supply and the method of connection and use of it shall have been approved
by the Water Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with local and state
regulations.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.77 INDUSTRIAL SITES.
   It shall be the duty of the Water Superintendent or the Superintendent's
representative to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and
other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual
or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist.
      (A)   The Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative may
require the survey and investigation to be conducted by a state approved Cross
Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI) hired by the customer.
      (B)   A written report of the CCCDI shall be submitted to the
Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative within ten days or
another time period prescribed the Superintendent or the representative.
      (C)   The surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public
record and shall be repeated every two years or as often as the Superintendent
or the Superintendent's representative shall deem necessary.
      (D)   Records of the surveys shall be maintained and available for review
for a period of at least five years.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.78 ACCESS BY CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI) shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the city for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections.
   (B)   The Water Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the city for
the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross-connection control inspection.
      (1)   On demand, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish the Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative any
information which he or she may request regarding the piping system or water
use on the property.
      (2)   Refusal to supply that information when demanded, as prescribed in
division (B)(1) above, shall create a presumption that an improper connection
exists, as defined or described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.79 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter is known to exist, and to take
such other precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate
any danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains.
      (1)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative is assured imminent
danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. This
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
      (2)   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected
to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water
supply, provided, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent or the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, the action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   (B)   Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent or any city agents
or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of the custom's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter, whether or not the termination
was with or without notice.
   (C)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until the
offending conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and until a reconnection fee of $50 is paid to
the city.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.80 CUSTOMER LIABILITY.
   The customer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.81 WRITTEN APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION OR INSTALLATION OF
PROTECTIVE DEVICE.
   Any user of water shall obtain written approval from the Water
Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative before taking any
proposed corrective action or installing any protective device. The total time
allowed for completion of the necessary correction shall be contingent upon the
degree of hazard involved and include the time required to obtain and install
equipment and will be specified in the approval. If the cross-connection has
not been removed within the time as hereinafter specified, the city shall, in
accordance with the law, physically separate the city water supply from the on-
site piping system in the manner that the two systems cannot be connected by
any unauthorized person. The disconnection shall be by disconnection by the
public water supply from the private water supply.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.82 ELIMINATION OF CROSS- CONNECTIONS.
   Not later than one year from the effective date of this subchapter or during
reconstruction, whichever is sooner, all existing cross-connections to the city
water supply systems shall be eliminated or controlled in accordance with the
state Plumbing Code and Environmental Protection Agency rules and regulations.
The expenses of the elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on
which the cross-connection exists.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.83 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative shall
notify the owner or authorized agent of the owner of the building or premise in
which a violation of this subchapter is found. The Superintendent or
representative shall give reasonable notice, based on the level of hazard to
health, for the owner to have the violation removed or corrected.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner to have the defect corrected by the end of
the specified time interval, the Superintendent or representative may, if in
his or her judgment an imminent health hazard exists, cause the water service
to the building or premises to be terminated, and/or be authorized to take any
legal action necessary to correct the hazard.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.84 COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, install, modify or maintain a water
connection in violation of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-7-90) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall perform any act in violation of §
52.11 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $750, imprisoned for not
more than six months and shall be liable for the actual damage done or caused.
('74 Code, § 27-28) (Ord. 894, passed 6-4-74)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.75 through
52.84 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every
day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
52.15 shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 1425, passed 9-7-10; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 4-1-14; Am. Ord. 1538, passed
4-7-15)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITIES
Section
   
53.01   Extraterritorial extensions of utility lines
   
53.02   Rates
§ 53.01 EXTRATERRITORIAL EXTENSIONS OF UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   Prerequisites. No city utility shall be extended or connected to
territory or property outside the city except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Costs of extension. All infrastructure costs to connect to city
utilities shall be borne by the property owner benefitted or served. The mains
shall be the property of the city, subject to all laws, rules and regulations
of the city as if it were an extension within the city. For all main extensions
outside the city where easements, permits or other requirements are necessary,
the property owner shall procure them in the name of the city from the proper
authorities and file them with the Clerk at no cost to the city.
   (C)   Conformity with city ordinances. All construction of extensions of the
city’s utilities shall be in accordance with the provision of this code,
subject to the approval of any commission having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Approval by City Attorney and other city agencies. All legal
requirements or documents pertaining to this section shall be approved by the
Attorney after consultation with the Superintendent of Public Works and any
other commission of the city or division of the city, without cost to the city
or the City Attorney, after the outline of the scope of the work is approved by
the Council.
   (E)   Discontinuance of service for violation. If the requirements of this
section are not complied with, the extension shall not be constructed. If there
is any violation of this section after construction is completed, the property
or territory shall be disconnected and all claims or interest forfeited. Any
financial obligation concerning the extension of utility mains shall remain
with the property or territory notwithstanding any future action of owners,
renters or others served by utility extensions.
   (F)   Reimbursement where extension made available to others. Upon request
of the owner of property or territory not contiguous to the corporate limits
for the extension of a city utility, an ordinance authorizing an agreement for
individuals to obtain reimbursement for the improvement of a utility shall be
passed by the Council. The ordinance shall identify the improvement and its
exact location. Costs of the improvement shall be filed with the Clerk upon
completion of construction, thereby making it possible for the city to collect
from other property owners wishing to utilize the utility and reimburse the
owner of property making the improvement.
('74 Code, §27-3) (Ord. 865, passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 1279, passed 4-1-03; Am.
Ord. 1368, passed 11-20-07)
Cross-reference:
   Extension of gas mains, see §
50.60
§ 53.02 RATES.
   Any customer receiving utility services for property outside the city limits
after November 20, 2007, shall pay for water and sewer services at the rate of
150% of the rate charged to residential customers, and shall pay for natural
gas at the rate of $0.15 per thermal unit above the rate charged to residential
customers.
(Ord. 1279, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 1368, passed 11-20-07)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   VEHICLE CODE
      
77.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
78.   SNOWMOBILES
      
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
80.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
81.   NEIGHBORHOOD GAS-POWERED AND ELECTRIC VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
   
70.14   Exemption for street maintenance vehicles
   
70.15   Directing traffic at fires
   
70.16   Tickets
Traffic Signs, Signals,and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
   
70.42   Posting signs
Skateboards
   
70.55   Definitions
   
70.56   Prohibited
   
70.57   Areas of city where prohibited
   
70.58   Negligent skateboarding
   
70.59   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
70.60   Uncontrolled skateboard prohibited
   
70.61   Seizure and forfeiture
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of city departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Juvenile
Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency; vehicles of the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more
and those identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and
vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency, as
defined bye the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway, being specifically designated as but not limited to that portion of
the city in which the following streets or portions thereof: North and South
Monroe Streets, from East Fayette to East Jefferson Street; North and South
Madison Streets, from Fayette Street to Jefferson Street; East and West
Washington Streets, from Jackson Street to Memorial Street; and East and West
Adams Streets, from North Jackson Street to North Memorial Street.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including,  a commuter van, an arrangement when
being used for that purpose, or a recreational vehicle not being used
commercially.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.9)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the state
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per
hour or less.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7)
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion, or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such
a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which has a flash point of 150°F. or less, as
determined by the Tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device, including but
not limited to gasoline, naphtha, and benzine.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an inter-secting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver's license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident's driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1)
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village, and other local board or
body having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution
and laws of this state and each road district highway commissioner having that
authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles, on
converging roadways to permit entry into the junction thereof, wherein the
driver of each vehicle involved is adjust his vehicular speed and lateral
position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
   METAL TIRE. Any tire, the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20
miles per hour but not greater than 30 miles per hour, and is equipped with a
motor that produces two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion
engine is used, the displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter
displacement and the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift
gears.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power, motorized wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles
and low-speed gas bicycles. For this section, motor vehicles are divided into
two divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons.
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight m.p.h. on level ground.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement,  and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spiro-
metry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than 60
mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Any tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his
principal business, or where he makes up and approves his payroll, maintains a
central file of records, and main-tains his principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed, or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control his business affairs shall
be considered as the principal place of business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163)
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the city, the county, any park district,
school district, the state, or the United States government.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles, including digital registration plates issued by the Secretary of
State under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-401.5.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration  year, including digital
registration stickers issued by the Secretary of State under ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 3-401.5.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE SQUAD VEHICLE. A vehicle specifically designed, configured, and
equipped for the performance of access and extrication from hazardous or life-
endangering situations. However, if such vehicles have emergency medical
transport capability, they must be classified as rescue vehicles.
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 500 feet apart.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174)
   REVERSIBLE LANE. A lane of a two or more laned roadway upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person's license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division.
         (c)   A multifunction school-activity bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SOLID TIRE. Any tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Common- wealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion
of Canada.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois state police.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, carry upon, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar,
towline, or auxiliary axle carried upon or to render assistance to disabled
vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section, vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo and those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
('74 Code, §§ 17-1, 17-5, and 17-32)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Members of the city police department are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or in
emergencies, as public safety or convenience may require. Except in the case of
an emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Chief
of Police to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
('74 Code, § 17-6)
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of any police officer, fireman, person authorized by a local
authority to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203) ('74 Code, § 17-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) ('74 Code, § 17-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) ('74 Code, § 17-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses
to obey that direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue light. However,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 EXEMPTION FOR STREET MAINTENANCE VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter, with the exception of §§
76.01 and
76.11, do not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of the highway but shall apply to
such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
('74 Code, § 17-4) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 DIRECTING TRAFFIC AT FIRES.
   The fire department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him or
her, may exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in directing traffic
at the scene of any fire where the fire department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
('74 Code, § 17-8) (ord. 664, passed 1-17-61)
§ 70.16 TICKETS.
   For offenses other than violations of §§
76.01 and
76.11, police officers, after making not of the license number of the vehicle
and the name of the person violating this chapter, where possible, may issue a
traffic violation ticket notifying the person to appear in court at the time
designated for hearing such cases. The officer may sign a complaint for the
issuance of a warrant if the person does not appear at the time and place
specified.
('74 Code, § 17-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic- control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)    The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching
a pedestrian hybrid beacon.
   (F)   Any violation of division (A) that occurs within a designated highway
construction zone or maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than
$100 and no more than $1,000.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) (‘74 Code, § 17-36)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indica-tions shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-307, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by
traffic controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time
that the flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such top line,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there
is no such crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain
standing until an indication permitting the movement indicated by such red
arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the city
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one- way street, after stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (D)(2)
of this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in § 70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow
signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pave-ment indicating where the stop shall be made; or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) ('74 Code, § 17-33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don't Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedes- trians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don't Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don't Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) ('74 Code, § 17-34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting road-way
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) ('74 Code, § 17-35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this city which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the city as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway
Act, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) ('74 Code, § 17-38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311) ('74 Code, § 17-39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage,
injure, or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or
for the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalty which may
be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The City Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the city, is authorized to indicate the ownership
of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than 3/8 inch, or more
than 3/4 inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent
means. Except for employees of the City Street Department, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or
work on the highway approved by the city, it is unlawful for any person to
possess a sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all
through streets, one-way streets or alleys, and stop intersections.
('74 Code, § 17-37) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
SKATEBOARDS
§ 70.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEGLIGENT MANEUVER. Any maneuver that may or cause injury to a person,
including the rider, and/or damage to property, and/or any maneuver that
threatens such injury or damage.
   RIDING A SKATEBOARD. Standing with one or both feet touching the skateboard,
crouching, sitting or lying upon the skateboard while it is in motion and/or
propelling a skateboard.
   SKATEBOARD. Has its ordinary meaning and includes a board of any material
with wheels affixed to the underside, designed to be ridden by a person. For
the purposes of this subchapter, the term SKATEBOARD shall include the terms
“scooter,” “coaster,” “roller blades” and “roller skates.”
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10)
§ 70.56 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard in any area of the
city designated herein as an area where skateboarding is prohibited and/or in
negligent manner as provided herein.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 AREAS OF CITY WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Skateboarding shall be prohibited in the city on the following:
      (1)   Jefferson Street, Adams Street, Washington Street and Fayette
Street between Memorial Street and Jackson Street;
      (2)   Memorial Street, Madison Street, Monroe Street and Jackson Street
between Jefferson Street and Fayette Street; and
      (3)   Including sidewalks adjacent to the avenues and streets.
   (B)   It is not a violation of this subchapter in the city on the following:
      (1)   To operate a skateboard in a designated skateboarding facility/
area; and
      (2)   To operate a skateboard in a privately-owned parking lot open to
the public if the owner of the lot has given express written permission for
that activity.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10)
§ 70.58 NEGLIGENT SKATEBOARDING.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to ride a
skateboard in a negligent manner within the city.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   In areas of the city where skateboarding is not prohibited, it shall be a
violation of this subchapter for any person to ride a skateboard in a manner
contrary to traffic and/or pedestrian regulations.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.60 UNCONTROLLED SKATEBOARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any skateboard to be out of
the direct physical control of the owner or user while it is in motion anywhere
within the city. Any skateboard in violation of this provision is subject to
seizure and forfeiture as provided herein.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE.
   Whenever a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a
skateboard was used or is intended to be used in violation of this subchapter,
such skateboard is subject to seizure and forfeiture. In the event of seizure
pursuant to this subchapter, forfeiture shall be deemed complete unless the
owner requests a hearing before the Magistrate. At such hearing, the forfeiture
shall be ordered upon the officer’s showing of probable cause as provided
herein.
(Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General.  Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance or by
appropriate statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§
16-101 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $750.
   (B)   Skateboards. Upon the admission or determination of responsibility for
a violation of §§
70.55 through
70.61, the responsible person shall be assessed the following civil fines and
costs:
 
First Violation Second Violation Third or More Violation
$50             $150             $300
 
and all costs incurred by the city in enforcement and prosecution including
actual attorney fees. In addition, violators shall be responsible for
reimbursement/restitution for damage caused by the violation.
   (C)   Every person convicted of §
71.042(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not
result in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another. If the violation results in great bodily harm or permanent disability
or disfigurement to another, the person shall be guilty of a Class 3 felony.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) (Am. Ord. 1413, passed 1-5-10)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver's view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
   
71.107   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
71.108   Minimum age of drivers
   
71.109   Vehicles carrying explosives or flammable liquids
   
71.110   Driving prohibited
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this city at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic condi-
tions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any person
or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, urban district does not include any
interstate highway as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-133.1 which includes
all highways under the jurisdiction of the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (D) and (E) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (E)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district is 55 miles per hour.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1 and Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution.
         (c)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a SCHOOL DAY begins at 6:30 a.m.
and concludes at 4:00 p.m.
   (B)   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a local, country,
or state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare
where children pass going to and from school.
   (C)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets wherein the school zone is located. The signs shall give
proper due warning that a school zone is being approached, and shall indicate
the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when
school children are present.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speed, provided the use of the
device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the special
school speed zone.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (F), a person who violates this section
is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of this section are punishable with a
minimum fine of $150 for the first violation and a minimum fine of $300 for the
second or subsequent violation.
   (F)   A person committing a violation of this section is guilty of
aggravated special speed limit while passing schools when he or she drives a
motor vehicle at a speed that is:
      (1)   Twenty-six miles per hour or more but less than 35 miles per hour
in excess of the applicable special speed limit established under this section
or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
      (2)   Thirty-five miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable
special speed limit established under this section or a similar provision of a
local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605) ('74 Code, § 17-59) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in this city where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The state Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an inter- section other than as directed and
required by such devices.
   (B)   Two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making left turns by
drivers proceeding in opposite directions has been indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) ('74 Code, § 17-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
('74 Code, § 17-120)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802) ('74 Code, § 17-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) ('74 Code, §§ 17-54 and 17-158) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) of this section to
indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct
course, move right or left upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked
position. Unless the conditions of division (B) of this section are met, an
electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208 shall not
be left in the on position and must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, signal devices may be
flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) ('74 Code, § 17-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) ('74 Code, § 17-117) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand or arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) ('74 Code, § 17-118) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic;
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two-lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic,
any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and
place and under the conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand
lane available for traffic, or as close as practicable to the right-hand curb
or edge of the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, or when preparing for a left turn at an
intersection or into a private road or driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2). However, this division
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
('74 Code, § 17-81)
   (D)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
   (E)   Division (D) above does not apply:
      (1)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
      (2)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to drive
in the right lane;
      (3)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it necessary
to drive in the left lane;
      (4)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
      (5)   When a vehicle changes lanes to comply with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
11-907, 11-907.5, and 11-908;
      (6)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
      (7)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic control device; or
      (8)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances, and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties and vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) ('74 Code, § 17-82) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction on a highway may, subject to the provisions in division (D) of
this section and §
71.044, pass to the left of the bicycle on a portion of the highway designated
as a no-passing zone under §
71.047 if the driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle when:
      (1)   The bicycle is traveling at a speed of less than half of the posted
speed limit of the highway;
      (2)   The driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle without
exceeding the posted speed limit of the highway; and
      (3)   There is sufficient distance to the left of the centerline of the
highway for the motor vehicle to meet the overtaking and passing requirements
under this section.
   (F)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward, or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian, or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) ('74 Code, § 17-83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) ('74 Code, § 17-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) ('74 Code, § 17-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property, or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway, for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12-805. The driver
of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the
driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be
actuated continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
school bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils
within an urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the school bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain
actuated until the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be
actuated at any other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing head lamps permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, 12-805 may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal
lamps required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) ('74 Code, § 17-86) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) ('74 Code, § 17-56) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the city where overtaking and passing or driving on the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040 (A)(2) , §
71.042(E), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she is complying
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-907, 11-907.5, or 11-908.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) (‘74 Code, § 17-55)  Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) ('74 Code, § 17-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) ('74 Code, § 17-96) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest cross-walk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) ('74 Code, § 17-100) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) ('74 Code, § 17-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with
another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) ('74 Code, § 17-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an
alley, building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) ('74 Code, § 17-98)
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage
shall stop his or her vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or
across a sidewalk line projected across the alley or driveway, sound the horn
of the vehicle, and shall exercise unusual care in driving upon the sidewalk or
across the line.
('74 Code, § 17-99) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
   (C)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle, when the
authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber or yellow
warning lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall:
      (1)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle; or
      (2)   (a)   Proceeding with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle,
maintaining a safe speed for road conditions, if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
         (b)   The visual signal specified under this division (C) given by an
authorized emergency vehicle is an indication to drivers of approaching
vehicles that a hazardous condition is present when circumstances are not
immediately clear. Drivers of vehicles approaching a stationary emergency
vehicle in any lane shall heed the warning of the signal, reduce the speed of
the vehicle, proceed with due caution, maintain a safe speed for road
conditions, be prepared to stop, and leave a safe distance until safely passed
the stationary emergency vehicle.
      (3)   As used in division (C) of this section, AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY
VEHICLE includes any vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating,
rotating, or flashing lights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215, while the
owner or operator of the vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties.
   (D)   A person who violates division (C) of this section commits a business
offense punishable by a fine of not less than $100 or more than $10,000. It is
a factor in aggravation if the person committed the offense while in violation
of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-501, 12-610.1, or 12-610.2. Imposition of the
penalties authorized by this division for a violation of division (C) of this
section that results in the death of another person does not preclude
imposition of appropriate additional civil or criminal penalties.
   (E)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in damage to
the property of another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the
person’s driving privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less
than 90 days and not more than one year.
   (F)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in injury to
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person’s driving
privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less than 180 days and
not more than two years.
   (G)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in the death of
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person’s driving
privileges shall be suspended for two years.
   (H)   The Secretary of State shall, upon receiving a record of a judgment
entered against a person under division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Suspend the person’s driving privileges for the mandatory period;
or
      (2)   Extend the period of an existing suspension by the appropriate
mandatory period.
   (I)   In addition to other penalties imposed by this section, the court may
order a person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section to
perform community service as determined by the court.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907) ('74 Code, § 17-97) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) ('74 Code, § 17-70) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track equipment, by
reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (B)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the
driver is not always required to stop, the person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
the railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and he or she can
do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (C)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the
driver is not always required to stop but must slow down, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall slow down within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she checks that the tracks are clear of an approaching train or railroad track
equipment.
   (D)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (E)   When stop signs are erected at railroad grade crossings, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201) (‘74 Code, § 27-68)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and shall not
proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)    Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-8-1, 12-803, and 12-805. The driver of the
bus, in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of
division (A), must also:
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo “hazardous material” as
defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500. After stopping as required in this
section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of
gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   (B)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-
500, carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805 and is designed to
transport 16 or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(B), must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios; and (ii) open the service
door and driver's window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
   (C)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall proceed
only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the
driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (D)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the state Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) (‘74 Code, § 17-69)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (C)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 6-500, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (D)   Beginning January 1, 2009, the Secretary of State shall suspend for a
period of one month the driving privileges of any person convicted of a
violation of division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local
ordinance; the Secretary shall suspend for a period of three months the driving
privileges of any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the
second or subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction
for the same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, any person convicted of violating division (B) of this section or a
similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$500 or 50 hours of community service. Any person given a disposition of court
supervision for violating division (B) of this section or a similar provision
of a local ordinance shall also be subjects a mandatory fine of $500 or 50
hours of community service. Upon a second or subsequent. violation, in addition
to the suspensions authorized by this section, the person shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours community service. The Secretary may also
grant, for the duration of any suspension issued under this subsection, a
restricted driving permit granting the privilege of driving a motor vehicle
between the driver’s residence and place of employment or within other proper
limits that the Secretary of State shall find necessary to avoid any undue
hardship. A restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall be subject to
cancellation, revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State in like
manner and for like cause as a driver’s license may be cancelled, revoked or
suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more offenses against laws or
ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be deemed sufficient cause
for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the restricted driving
permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the issuance of a
restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate in a designated
driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a violation of
this division shall be included as an offense for the purposes of determining
suspension action under any other provision of this code, provided however,
that the penalties provided under this division shall be imposed unless those
penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are greater.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425)  Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled- access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) ('74 Code, § 17-71) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) ('74 Code, § 17-178) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411) ('74 Code, § 17-65)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412) ('74 Code, § 17-66) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any motorized
wheelchair. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local government from
regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility
devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1) ('74 Code, § 17-60) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Electric personal assistive mobility devices, see §
74.14
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
('74 Code, § 17-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter, as defined in the Litter
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215, hazardous waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, § 3.220, and potentially infectious medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 3.360, dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
city, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to interfere
with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) ('74 Code, § 17-67) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this city
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase
to its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED- ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711) ('74 Code, § 17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.107 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the outside of any vehicle.
('74 Code, § 17-15) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.108 MINIMUM AGE OF DRIVERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 16 years of age to operate any
motor vehicle upon any street in the city.
('74 Code, § 17-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.109 VEHICLES CARRYING EXPLOSIVES OR FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   Flammable liquids generally. It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle containing more than ten gallons of flammable liquids other than in the
fuel tank of the vehicle on any street in the city, except in compliance with
the following rules:
      (1)   No such vehicle shall be so operated unless it is constructed and
equipped in full compliance with the rules and regulations of the state and all
laws pertaining thereto;
      (2)   No such vehicle shall be parked or permitted to stand on any
roadway at the foot of a hill or on any curve, or within 100 feet of any open
fire. No such vehicle shall be parked or permitted to stand longer than is
necessary for making a delivery on any through street or within 50 feet of any
street intersection.
   (B)   Delivery of flammable liquid. Within the confines of the business
district or in any residence district, it shall be unlawful to transfer
flammable liquid from any vehicle or otherwise unload any amount of flammable
liquid from any vehicle. It shall also be unlawful to transfer flammable liquid
from any vehicle if, during transfer, the vehicle is unattended at any time.
   (C)   Explosives. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle containing
explosives on any street in the city, except in compliance with the following
rules:
      (1)   No such vehicle shall be so operated unless it is marked, loaded,
and equipped in full compliance with all laws of the state relating thereto;
      (2)   No trailer shall be used for the conveyance of explosives in the
city, but semitrailers may be so used;
      (3)   No vehicle carrying explosives shall be parked or permitted to
stand anywhere in the city longer than is necessary to make a lawful delivery;
however, the standing of such a vehicle made necessary by mechanical trouble,
traffic conditions, accident, or in obedience to the direction of a police
officer or traffic signal shall not be considered a violation of this division
(C).
   (D)   Slippery pavements. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
carrying explosives on any street in the city that is so slippery because of
ice, snow, or from any other cause, as to be unsafe for driving.
   (E)   Warning lights; signals. Whenever a vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquids is disabled in the city, warning flags or lights shall be
placed as required by statute. It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle
carrying explosives to remain unattended at any such time.
   (F)   Maintenance; storage. No work involving danger of sparks, fire,
friction, or concussion which might cause an explosion shall be performed on
any vehicle carrying explosives. No such vehicle shall be brought into or kept
in any garage in the city, nor shall a vehicle carrying explosives be permitted
to remain anywhere in the city under any circumstances for a period of more
than five hours.
   (G)   Nitroglycerine. It shall be unlawful to transport liquid
nitroglycerine by vehicle anywhere in the city.
   (H)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section relating to explosives
shall not apply to the transportation of nitroglycerine in capsule form, or in
solution in quantities not exceeding a total of one ounce avoirdupois in
weight, nor to the lawful transportation of properly packed ammunition in
quantities not exceeding 25 pounds in weight, nor to the transportation of
ammunition by the armed forces of the United States of America, the state, or
by police officers of other conservators of the peace in the performance of
their duties.
('74 Code, § 17-19) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 852, passed 9-21-71)
§ 71.110 DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Safety zone. No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any portion of
the roadway marked as a safety zone.
('74 Code, § 17-62)
   (B)   Closed streets. It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle, other than
an authorized emergency vehicle, upon any street or portion thereof which is
closed to traffic and so marked by signs, barricades, or otherwise.
('74 Code, § 17-63)
(Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Requirements. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council from time
to time.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
72.13   Exemption for persons with disabilities
   
72.14   Unlawful parking purposes
   
72.15   Authorized emergency vehicle parking
   
72.16   Parking vehicles of the second division
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Snow emergency route
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
   
72.42   Presumption of responsibility
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close
as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as set forth by ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the state Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) ('74 Code, § 17-157) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
topping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) ('74 Code, § 17-156) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Generally. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic,
or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)    In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or digital registration sticker or current
temporary permit pending registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic- control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   Unauthorized movement. No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is
unlawful.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303) ('74 Code, § 17-154)
   (C)   Loading zones. It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, or for the
driver to stand any freight-carrying vehicle for a period of time longer than
is necessary to load or unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes,
in any of the following places:
      (1)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the
entrance to any hospital at any time.
      (2)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business.
('74 Code, § 17-161)
   (D)   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
('74 Code, § 17-162)
   (E)   Street cleaning; snow removal. It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on any public street or portion thereof in the city at anytime when the
street is being cleaned or snow is being removed therefrom. Signs indicating
that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned or that snow is being removed
shall be posted before cleaning or snow removal, and the sign shall be removed
after the cleaning or removal of snow is completed.
(Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The city, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for the
maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the city regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, §
72.10, and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in such
position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all times that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under paragraph 12 of ILCS 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or
to a veteran with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-609, as
evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or
veteran with a disability, in any parking place, including any private or
public off-street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park
any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place
specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11- 301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. It shall not be a defense
to a charge under this section that the sign posted pursuant to this section
does not comply with the technical requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
301, Department regulations, or local ordinance if a reasonable person would be
made aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place that the place is
reserved for a person with disabilities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3) (Ord. 1136, passed 7-19-94) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 EXEMPTION FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1 pursuant to ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 3-616, or to a veteran with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 3-609, or a special decal or device issued pursuant to ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 3-616 or pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2, or a motor
vehicle registered in a state, district, territory, or foreign country other
than Illinois upon which is displayed a registration plate, special decal, or
device issued by the other jurisdiction designating that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with disabilities shall be exempt from any
ordinance imposing time limitations on parking, except limitations of one-half
hour or less, on any street or highway zone, or any parking lot or parking
place which is owned, leased, or owned and leased by the city, but such vehicle
shall be subject to any ordinances which prohibit parking in “no stopping” and
“no standing” zones in front of or near fire hydrants, driveways, public
building entrances and exits, bus stops, and loading areas, and is prohibited
from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard, whereby the
motor vehicle shall be moved at the instruction and request of a law
enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer. Any motor vehicle
bearing such registration plates or a special decal or device may park, in
addition to any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved
for such vehicles by the posting of an official sign. Parking privileges
granted by this section are strictly limited to the person to whom the special
registration plates, special decal, or device were issued and to qualified
operators acting under his or her express direction while the person with
disabilities is present.
   (B)   The parking privileges granted by this section are also extended to
motor vehicles of not-for-profit organizations used for the transportation of
persons with disabilities, when the motor vehicles display the decal or device
issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2.
(Ord. 1136, passed 7-19-94) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 UNLAWFUL PARKING PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which merchandise is peddled.
('74 Code, § 17-160) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE PARKING.
   The City Council by ordinance may designate authorized emergency vehicle
parking spaces, and it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in such a space
except as to those types or classification of vehicles enumerated in the
ordinance creating the emergency vehicle parking space.
('74 Code, § 17-163) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 PARKING VEHICLES OF THE SECOND DIVISION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or permit to stand a vehicle of the second
division, except for the purpose of loading or unloading or in compliance with
directions of a police officer, in the central business district between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, inclusive.
('74 Code, § 17-164) Penalty, see §
70.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
emergency snow routes within the City of Pittsfield to ensure the safety and
efficiency of vehicular traffic during winter weather conditions. By
designating specific routes, the city aims to facilitate snow removal
operations and emergency services, thereby minimizing disruptions and hazards
caused by snow accumulation.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTE. Designated streets and roadways identified by
appropriate signage where parking restrictions and other measures are enforced
during declared snow emergencies.
      (2)   SNOW EMERGENCY. An emergency snow ordinance is in effect any time
there are three or more inches of snow predicted or any accumulation of ice or
any condition declared by the City of Pittsfield in response to significant
snowfall or winter weather conditions that may impede traffic flow, requiring
the implementation of emergency snow routes.
      (3)   The snow route shall be enforced beginning at midnight prior to the
predicted snow.
      (4)   SNOW EMERGENCY DECLARATION. An official announcement by the Mayor
or designated authority indicating the commencement of a snow emergency.
   (C)   Designation of emergency snow routes.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works, in consultation with the Mayor's
office and relevant departments, shall identify and designate emergency snow
routes within the City of Pittsfield.
      (2)   The list of designated emergency snow routes shall be made publicly
available on the city's official website, through local media outlets, and
posted prominently at key entry points to the city.
      (3)   The city square, parking lot under the town water tower, and one
block off of the city square shall be designated an emergency snow route. This
shall include along the state highway in this area.
   (D)   Snow emergency declarations.
      (1)   The Mayor or their designated representative shall have the
authority to declare a snow emergency when weather conditions warrant such
action. Temporary parking of emergency vehicles shall be permitted.
      (2)   Snow emergency declarations shall be communicated to the public
through official city channels, including but not limited to press releases,
social media, and the city's website.
   (E)   Parking restrictions on emergency snow routes.
      (1)   During a declared snow emergency, parking is prohibited on
designated emergency snow routes.
      (2)   Vehicles parked in violation of this section may be towed at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   The City of Pittsfield shall provide reasonable notice to the
public regarding parking restrictions on emergency snow routes.
      (4)   No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on
any public street on a designated snow emergency route during such times of any
snow fall or ice accumulation or for a period of 24 hours after the termination
of any snow fall or ice accumulation unless said snow emergency is extended by
the Mayor. Said extension shall be announced in the same manner as a
declaration of a snow emergency.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for residents or contractors to plow snow into
the city roadways or to pile snow on city right of ways that would impede
normal traffic.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of parking restrictions on emergency snow routes shall be
subject to fines as established by §
72.99.
      (2)   Towed vehicles shall be subject to towing and impoundment fees as
determined by the towing service.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Pittsfield Police Department, in conjunction with other
relevant city departments, is authorized to enforce this section.
      (2)   Enforcement may include ticketing, towing, and impoundment of
vehicles in violation of parking restrictions.
(Ord. 1726, passed 2-20-24)
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.11 or any other applicable section of this traffic code or ordinance of the
city, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the
roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   When the registration of the vehicle has been suspended, cancelled,
or revoked.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302) ('74 Code, § 17-166)
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
    Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving such vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates or
digital registration plates and registration sticker or stickers or digital
registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.42 PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The fact that any vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that the person was in
control of the vehicle at the time of the parking.
('74 Code, § 17-167) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
72.10(A)(1)(h) shall be fined $500 or 50 hours of community service.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303(a))
   (C)    Whoever violates §
72.12 shall be fined $250, in addition to any costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§11-1301.3(c) and (d))
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.08   Riding on mopeds
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles, motor driven cycles
or mopeds
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under ILCS Chapter 625, Act 5, §§
11-901 et seq., and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in
this traffic code, and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which
by their nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) ('74 Code, § 17-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) ('74 Code, § 17-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle,
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this subsection, a “substandard width lane” means a lane that
is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting
a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren. This division does not apply to a bicycle that is a police
vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the state Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least 3/16 inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the
continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
state Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) ('74 Code, § 17-180) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the state Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet, or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to mopeds.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) ('74 Code, § 17-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES
OR MOPEDS.
   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle, motor driven cycles or
mopeds shall be protected by glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield. This
equipment shall meet the requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle
Equipment Safety Commission Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements for
Motorcyclists’ Eye Protection.”
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) ('74 Code, § 17-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) ('74 Code, § 17-179) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
    Any person who operates a motorcycle or moped on one wheel is guilty of
reckless driving as defined in §
76.06.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian right-of-
way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code, but at all other places pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001)
   (C)   At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a
traffic-control device, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the
roadway other than with released traffic, if the crossing interferes with the
lawful movement of traffic.
('74 Code, § 17-139) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT  CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply under the condition stated in §
74.03(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) ('74 Code, §§ 17-132 and 17-133) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of- way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices, and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) ('74 Code, § 17-135) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING-IMPAIRED, OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to any blind, hearing-
impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) ('74 Code, § 17-142) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practic- able, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) ('74 Code, § 17-134)
   (B)   (1)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals
are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a
crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in
any business district.
('74 Code, § 17-141) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
Electric personal assistive mobility devices, see §
74.14
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this city shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act.
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) ('74 Code, § 17-136) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D)(2), where a sidewalk is provided
and its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D)(2), where a sidewalk is not
available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk only on a
shoulder, as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D)(2), where neither a sidewalk nor a
shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall
walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-
way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian
upon a roadway shall yield the right-of- way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (2)   In municipalities with a population of under 2,000,000 inhabitants,
upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 miles per hour or
less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is 18
years of age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians
wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other
vehicular traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to
all other rights and duties under this ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1001 et seq.
Nothing in these provisions shall be construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing
in-line speed skates from using a lane designated for bicycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) (‘74 Code, § 17-138)
      (3)   No person shall stand in any roadway other than in a safety zone,
if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
(‘74 Code, § 17-137) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right- of-way to any
pedestrians on a sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk,
except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curbline, if such
standing interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other pedestrians.
('74 Code, § 17-140) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   Operation on a sidewalk or roadway. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device upon a sidewalk or roadway has all the
rights and is subject to all the duties applicable to a pedestrian. Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the authority of any home rule
or non-home rule unit of local government from regulating or prohibiting the
use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1005.1)
   (B)   Speed of operation on a sidewalk. A person may not operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater
than eight miles per hour. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
preempt the authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local
government from regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal
assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1412.2)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
   
75.02   Towing
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq., or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.,
or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers
having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a
gross weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the
transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not
to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
highways only for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local
source of supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) ('74 Code, §§ 17-182 through 17-189) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 75.02 TOWING.
   It shall be unlawful to tow any motor vehicle on any street if the drawbar
or connection exceeds eight feet in length. Lights, visible to the rear and
sides for a distance of 200 feet, shall be maintained on any vehicle towed on
any street between sunset and sunrise.
('74 Code, § 17-64) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon, or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon, or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq., or otherwise in
violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq. governing
size, weight, and load do not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and
ice removal operations owned or operated by the city, or to implements of
husbandry, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., temporarily
operated or towed in a combination upon a highway provided such combination
does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case of hauling fresh,
perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first processing, not
more than three wagons being towed by an implement of husbandry, or to a
vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit.
   (C)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLASS A STREETS. Streets and alleys surfaced or improved with concrete or
brick.
      CLASS B STREETS. Streets and alleys surfaced or improved with gravel or
bituminous products.
      CLASS C STREETS. Streets and alleys with no surfacing or improvements.
      (2)   Maximum weight generally. No vehicle or combination of vehicles
shall be operated, loaded, or unloaded upon the streets and alleys of the city
when the gross weight on the road surface through any axle thereof exceeds
16,000 pounds, except, however, that on Class A and Class C streets the gross
weight on the road surface through any axle may not exceed 18,000 pounds. The
superintendent of the street department may designate various Class B streets
or portions thereof which can safely accommodate 18,000 pounds per axle and, as
to those so designated, the maximum axle load shall be 18,000 pounds.
      (3)   Winter operation. No vehicle shall be operated upon any street or
alley of a Class B or C designation from October 15 through March 15 inclusive,
whenever any such street or alley, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or
other climatic condition, will be seriously damaged or destroyed by the
operation.
      (4)   Waiver. Upon a showing of hardship, the superintendent of the
street department may permit oversize loads to traverse streets and alleys and
may permit prohibited vehicular operation upon alleys; permission shall be
conditioned upon observance of measures recommended by the superintendent
calculated to minimize the damage to the street or alley.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101) ('74 Code, § 17-192 through 17-194) (Ord. 664,
passed 1-17-61) Penalty, see §
70.99
   (D)   Designation of Class II and Class III highways.
      (1)   Section 1-126.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-126.1) provides that local authorities may designate Class II or Class III
highways within their jurisdiction.
      (2)   The following routes are designated as a Class II highway: from
Martinsburg Road to Clarksville Road to Fayette Street, and Fayette Street
between Memorial Street and Jackson Street.
   (E)   Violation. No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of
the city in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial
vehicle restrictions set forth in any applicable ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 1555, passed 11-3-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in the state unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The state Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the state Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) ('74 Code, § 17-191) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this city, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: VEHICLE CODE
Section
   
76.01   Adoption of the Illinois Vehicle Code
   
76.02   Citation
§ 76.01 ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference the following provisions of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, as existing on the effective date
of this chapter and as may be amended after the effective date:
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 2-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 5-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 7-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 8-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 9-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 10-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 13-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 13C-1, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 17-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18a-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-100, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-1101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18d-101, et. seq
      ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-101, et. seq
   (B)   Said sections shall be cited as described in §
76.02.
   (C)   No person shall violate any provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code so
incorporated into this chapter by reference. Any reference in the incorporated
sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code shall be construed to refer to the
“Pittsfield Vehicle Code”, unless the context of the section clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (D)   Some title headings of the sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code
incorporated into the Pittsfield Vehicle Code are set forth herein without the
full text of the incorporated statute. Said headings are set forth for
convenience of the reader only, and the failure to include the full text herein
shall not be construed as a failure to properly enact the chapter or
incorporate sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code into this chapter. The full
text of the incorporated sections appear in full in ILCS Ch. 625.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-22)
§ 76.02 CITATION.
   Any references to the Illinois Vehicle Code incorporated into the Pittsfield
Vehicle Code shall be cited as follows:
      “
Chapter 76” as the case may be, with the blank portion referring to the act and
section number. For example, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 2-101 shall be cited as
Chapter 76-2-101.
(Ord. 1696, passed 5-17-22)
CHAPTER 77: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
77.02   Authority to declare inoperable vehicle a nuisance
   
77.03   Authority to impound; procedure
   
77.04   Notice to be given to registered owner, state police
   
77.05   Reclaiming of vehicle by owner
   
77.06   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
77.07   Police department to keep records of reclamation or disposal of vehicle
   
77.08   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
77.09   Liability
   
77.10   Vehicle abandoned in public garage or parking area; operator to notify
police
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle as described in division (B) of this
section or in §
77.03, or any part thereof, on any highway in this city is unlawful.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in this
city is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of the abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property shall
be authorized for removal by the police department after a waiting period of
seven days or more, or may be removed immediately if determined to be a
hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under ILCS 65, Act 5, § 11- 40-3.1. A
violation of divisions (A) or (B) of this section is subject to penalties as
set forth under ILCS 65, Act 5, § 4-214.
   (C)   A towing service may begin to process an unclaimed vehicle as
abandoned by requesting a record search by the Secretary of State up to ten
days after the date of the tow, or any later date acceptable to the Secretary
of State. This division shall not apply to vehicles towed by order or
authorization of a law enforcement agency.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.02 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE INOPERABLE VEHICLE A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Shall mean any motor vehicle from which, for a period of seven days
or more, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. “Inoperable motor vehicle” Shall not include:
         (a)   a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations;
         (b)   any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in
use, nor an operable historic vehicle over 25 years of age;
         (c)   a motor vehicle on the premise of a place of business engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles; or
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that cannot be lawfully operated on the streets
and highways of the
state, to include but not limited to the lack of valid and current vehicle
registration, license plates, and insurance.
   (B)   Leaving of wrecked, non-operating vehicles on street. No person shall
leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on
any street or highway in the city.
   (C)   Inoperable vehicles declared to be a nuisance. Inoperable motor
vehicles, as defined herein, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
     (D)   Written notice. All persons are required to dispose of any
inoperable motor vehicles under their control upon written notice received from
the City Council or from the Chief of Police or any member of the police
department designated by him commanding such disposition of said inoperable
motor vehicle.
   (E)   Impoundment. The Chief of Police or any member of the police
department designated by him is hereby authorized to remove or have removed an
inoperable vehicle as defined herein. Such vehicle shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with §§
77.03 through
77.09. The Chief of Police or a member of the police department designated by
him may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting such vehicle, posting notice thereon, and removing and impounding
such vehicle, and it shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the Chief of
Police or his designee from entering on private property for purposes of
carrying out his duties hereunder or to interfere with him in the lawful
performance of his duties under the provisions of this section.
Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to declare inoperable motor vehicles as nuisance, see ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-40-3
   Authority to impound hazardous dilapidated motor vehicles, see ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-40-3.1
§ 77.03 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on that part of a toll
highway, interstate highway, or expressway within the city for two hours or
more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the police
department.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in an urban district for ten
hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the police
department.
   (C)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway, outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the
police department.
   (D)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by the police department.
   (E)   Except as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 18a-100 et seq., the
owner or lessor of privately owned real property within this city, or any
person authorized by such owner or lessor, or the police department in the case
of publicly owned real property may cause any motor vehicle abandoned or left
unattended upon such property without permission to be removed by a towing
service without liability for the costs of removal, transportation, or storage
or damage caused by such removal, transportation, or storage. The towing or
removal of any vehicle from private property without the consent of the
registered owner or other legally authorized person in control of the vehicle
is subject to compliance with the following conditions and restrictions:
      (1)   Any towed or removed vehicle must be stored at the site of the
towing service's place of business. The site must be open during business
hours, and for the purpose of redemption of vehicles, during the time that the
person or firm towing such vehicle is open for towing purposes.
      (2)   The towing service shall within 30 minutes of completion of such
towing or removal, notify the Police Department of such towing or removal, and
the make, model, color, and license plate number of the vehicle, and shall
obtain and record the name of the person at the Police Department.
      (3)   If the registered owner or legally authorized person entitled to
possession of the vehicle shall arrive at the scene prior to actual removal or
towing of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be disconnected from the tow truck and
that person shall be allowed to remove the vehicle without interference, upon
the payment of a reasonable service fee of not more than one-half the posted
rate of the towing service as provided in division (6) below, for which a
receipt shall be given.
      (4)   The rebate or payment of money or any other valuable consideration
from the towing service or its owners, managers, or employees to the owners or
operators of the premises from which the vehicles are towed or removed, for the
privilege of removing or towing those vehicles, is prohibited.
      (5)   Except for property appurtenant to and obviously a part of a
single-family residence, and except for instances where notice is personally
given to the owner or other legally authorized person in control of the vehicle
that the area in which that vehicle is parked is reserved or otherwise
unavailable to unauthorized vehicles and they are subject to being removed at
the owner or operator's expense, any property owner or lessor, prior to towing
or removing any vehicle from private property without the consent of the owner
or other legally authorized person in control of that vehicle, must post a
notice meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   The notice must be prominently placed at each driveway access or
curb cut allowing vehicular access to the property within five feet from the
public right-of-way line. If there are no curbs or access barriers, the sign
must be posted not less than one sign each 100 feet of lot frontage.
         (b)   The notice must indicate clearly, in not less than two-inch high
light-reflective letters on a contrasting background, that unauthorized
vehicles will be towed away at the owner's expense.
         (c)   The notice must also provide the name and current telephone
number of the towing service towing or removing the vehicle.
         (d)   The sign structure containing the required notices must be
permanently installed with the bottom of the sign not less than four feet above
ground level, and must be continuously maintained on the property for not less
than 24 hours prior to the towing or removing of any vehicle.
      (6)   Any towing service that tows or removes vehicles and proposes to
require the owner, operator, or person in control of the vehicle to pay the
costs of towing and storage prior to redemption of the vehicle must file and
keep on record with the Police Department a complete copy of the current rates
to be charged for such services, and post at the storage site an identical rate
schedule and any written contracts with property owners, lessors, or persons in
control of property which authorize them to remove vehicles as provided in this
section. The towing and storage charges, however, shall not exceed the maximum
amount allowed by the Illinois Commerce Commission under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
18a-200.
      (7)   No person shall engage in the removal of vehicles from private
property as described in this section without filing a notice of intent in the
city, and such notice shall be filed at least seven days before commencing such
towing.
      (8)   No removal of a vehicle from private property shall be done except
upon express written instructions of the owners or persons in charge of the
private property upon which the vehicle is said to be trespassing.
      (9)   Vehicle entry for the purpose of removal shall be allowed with
reasonable care on the part of the person or firm towing the vehicle. Such
person or firm shall be liable for any damages occasioned to the vehicle if
such entry is not in accordance with the standards of reasonable care.
      (10)   Except as authorized by a law enforcement officer, no towing
service shall engage in the removal of a commercial motor vehicle that requires
a commercial driver’s license to operate by operating the vehicle under its own
power on a highway.
      (11)   When a vehicle has been towed or removed pursuant to this section,
it must be released to its owner, custodian, agent, or lienholder within one-
half hour after requested, if such request is made during business hours. Any
vehicle owner, custodian, agent, or lienholder shall have the right to inspect
the vehicle before accepting its return, and no release or waiver of any kind
which would release the towing service from liability for damages incurred
during the towing and storage may be required from any vehicle owner or other
legally authorized person as a condition of release of the vehicle. A detailed,
signed receipt showing the legal name of the towing service must be given to
the person paying towing or storage charges at the time of payment, whether
requested or not.
         (a)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement, firefighting,
rescue, ambulance, or other emergency vehicles which are marked as such or to
property owned by any governmental entity.
         (b)   When an authorized person improperly causes a motor vehicle to
be removed, such person shall be liable to the owner or lessee of the vehicle
for the cost of removal, transportation, and storage, any damages resulting
from the removal, transportation, and storage, attorney’s fee, and court costs.
         (c)   Any towing or storage charges accrued shall be payable in cash
or by cashier’s check, certified check, debit card, credit card, or wire
transfer, at the option of the party taking possession of the vehicle.
      (12)   Towing companies shall also provide insurance coverage for areas
where vehicles towed under the provisions of this chapter will be impounded or
otherwise stored, and shall adequately cover loss by fire, theft, or other
risks. Any person or company who violates this requirement shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $750.
   (F)   When a vehicle is determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor
vehicle pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1, its removal and
impoundment by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (G)   When a vehicle is removed as set forth herein, the owner of the
vehicle shall be responsible for all towing and storage charges. Vehicles may
become subject to a lien as set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(g) for
unpaid charges.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203)
   (H)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or un- claimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in this city not the owner of the
vehicle, that person shall immediately notify the Police Department. Upon
receipt of such notification, the police will authorize a towing service to
remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, and maintain a record of the tow as set forth in division (I) below
until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or other person legally entitled to
possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-202)
   (I)   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in this
section:
      (1)   The authorization, any hold order, and any release shall be in
writing, or confirmed in writing, with a copy given to the towing service.
      (2)   The Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade
name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number,
license plate or digital license plate year and number, and registration
sticker or digital registration sticker year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or other legally entitled person shall be
responsible to the towing service for payment of applicable removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs associated with a vehicle
towed or held under order or authorization of the Police Department. If a
vehicle towed or held under order or authorization of the Police Department is
seized by the Police Department or any other law enforcement or governmental
agency and sold, any unpaid removal, towing, storage, and processing charges
and collection costs shall be paid to the towing service from the proceeds of
the sale. If applicable law provides that the proceeds are to be paid into the
treasury of the appropriate civil jurisdiction, then any unpaid removal,
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to
the towing service from the treasury of the civil jurisdiction. That payment
shall not, however, exceed the amount of proceeds from the sale, with the
balance to be paid by the owner, operator, or other legally entitled person.
   (4)   Upon delivery of a written release order to the towing service, a
vehicle subject to a hold order shall be released to the owner, operator, or
other legally entitled person upon proof of ownership or other entitlement and
upon payment of applicable removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of vehicle driven by person arrested for driving under the
influence of alcohol, drugs or the like, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(e)
§ 77.04 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO REGISTERED OWNER, STATE POLICE.
   (A)   (1)   When the police department authorizing the impounding of a
vehicle does not know the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally-entitled person, it will cause the vehicle registration records
of the state to be searched by the Secretary of State for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
      (2)   (a)    The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle
files of the Illinois State Police to be searched by a directed communication
to the Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle.
When the Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the
information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from
these record searches will be returned to the police department for use in
sending notice by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally- entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition be made, and setting forth public sale information.
         (b)   Notification shall be sent no later than business ten days after
the date the police department impounds or authorizes the impounding of a
vehicle, provided that if the police department is unable to determine the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally-entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten-day business period after
impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later than two days after the
date the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally-entitled persons are as set forth in §
77.06(B).
      (3)   (a)    When ownership information is needed for a towing service to
give notification as required under this chapter, the towing service may cause
the vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by the Secretary
of State, and in such case, the towing service also shall give notice to all
lienholders of record within the time period required for such other notices.
         (b)   The written request of a towing service, in the form and
containing the information prescribed by the Secretary of State by rule, may be
transmitted to the Secretary of State in person, by U.S. mail or other delivery
service, by facsimile transmission, or by other means the Secretary of State
deems acceptable.
         (c)   The Secretary of State shall provide the required information,
or a statement that the information was not found in the vehicle registration
records of the state, by U.S. mail or other delivery service, facsimile
transmission, as requested by the towing service, or by other means acceptable
to the Secretary of State.
      (4)   The Secretary of State may prescribe standards and procedures for
submission of requests for record searches and replies via computer link.
      (5)   Fees for services provided under this section shall be in amounts
prescribed by the Secretary of State under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-821.1.
Payment may be made by the towing service using cash, any commonly accepted
credit card, or any other means of payment deemed acceptable by the Secretary
of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-205)
   (B)    When the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or other state, if applicable, the police
department shall notify the Illinois State Police for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois State
Police will be immediately forwarded to the police department for notification
purposes as set forth in division (A) above. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-206).
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-206)
§ 77.05 RECLAIMING OF VEHICLE BY OWNER.
   Before the owner or the person entitled to possession of any impounded
vehicle shall be permitted to remove the same from a pound or storage space, he
shall furnish evidence of his identity, ownership of the vehicle, and right to
possession thereto and upon delivery shall sign a receipt for the vehicle and
shall pay the costs of removal and storage.
(Am. Ord. 1210, passed 11-17-98)
§ 77.06 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles with notice.
      (1)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle seven years
of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons for a period of 30 days after notice has been given as
required by §
77.04, the police department or towing service having possession of the vehicle
shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an
automotive parts recycler, rebuilder, or scrap processor under state law.
Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place
for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has
been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the police department
where the vehicle is impounded, or the towing service where the vehicle is
impounded, shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally-entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
      (2)   If an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle displays dealer
plates, notice under divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall be sent to
both the dealer and the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons.
      (3)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in §
77.04 has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department or
towing service due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the
address obtained from the registration records of this state, the sending of a
second certified notice will not be required.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208)
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles more than seven years of age; disposal
of abandoned or unclaimed vehicles without notice.
      (1)   When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided in §
77.06(A) without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, or when any such vehicle is towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten days for
the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered owner, lienholder,
or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in
person for a determination of disposition; and for an examination of the
Illinois State Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At
the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of the
following ways:
         (a)   The Police Department will authorize the disposal of the vehicle
as junk or salvage.
         (b)   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided
in division (A) of this section, provided that this division (B)(2) shall not
apply to vehicles towed by order or authorization of a law enforcement agency.
      (3)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, expanded-use antique
vehicle, custom vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person
desiring to restore it.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209)
   (C)   Collection of unpaid charges. In an action to collect towing, storage,
and processing charges that remain unpaid after disposition of a vehicle towed
or relocated under this chapter, the towing service may recover reasonable
collection costs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209.2)
   (D)   Titling vehicles after public sale; removal of liens. When an
applicant for a certificate of title under this chapter presents to the
Secretary of State proof that he has purchased or acquired a vehicle at a
public sale as authorized by this chapter and such fact is certified to by the
Police Department of this city, the Secretary of State shall issue a
certificate of title for the vehicle upon receipt of the statutory fee and a
properly executed application for a certificate of title. The title issued by
the Secretary of State under this division shall be free of any lien that
existed against the vehicle prior to the time the vehicle was acquired by the
applicant under this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-212)
§ 77.07 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO KEEP RECORDS OF RECLAMATION OR DISPOSAL OF
VEHICLE.
   When a vehicle in the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the
registered owner, lienholder, or other legally-entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-210)
§ 77.08 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the city is authorized to be towed away by the
Police Department and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of
the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing, storage, and
processing charges shall be deposited in the Treasury of the city.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-211)
§ 77.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   A police officer or the Police Department, or the towing service
owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for
damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner,
or his or her legal representative, lienholder, or any other person legally
entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold
or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes
or tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a law enforcement
officer or agency or by the Police Department shall not be held to answer or be
liable for loss of, or damages to, any real or personal property that occurs in
the course of the removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents:
      (1)   On a limited access highway in a designated Incident Management
Program that uses fast lane clearance techniques as defined by the Department
of Transportation; or
      (2)   At the direction of a peace officer, a highway authority official,
or a representative of local authorities, under §§
76.05 or
76.06.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213)
§ 77.10 VEHICLE ABANDONED IN PUBLIC GARAGE OR PARKING AREA; OPERATOR TO NOTIFY
POLICE.
   (A)   An operator of a place of business for garaging, repairing, parking,
or storing vehicles for the public in which a vehicle remains unclaimed after
being left for the purpose of garaging, repairing, parking, or storage for a
period of 15 days shall, within five days after the expiration of that period,
report the vehicle as unclaimed to the City Police Department.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle:
      (1)   Removed to a place of storage by the City Police Department in
accordance with §§
77.01 and
77.03; or
      (2)   Left under a garaging, repairing, parking, or storage order signed
by the owner, lessor, or other legally entitled person.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section will result in the forfeiture of
storage fees for that vehicle involved.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-107(c))
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §§
77.01 and
77.02 or who aids and abets in that violation:
      (1)   Shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $200; and
      (2)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing, storage, and processing
charges and collections costs pursuant to §
77.03.
   (B)   (1)   When a vehicle is abandoned, it shall be presumed that the last
registered owner is responsible for the abandonment and shall be liable for all
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs, less any amounts
realized in the disposal of the vehicle. The last registered owner’s liability
for storage fees may not exceed a maximum of 30 days’ storage fees.
      (2)   The presumption established under this division (B) may be rebutted
by showing that prior to the time of the tow:
         (a)   A report of vehicle theft was filed with respect to the vehicle;
or
         (b)   The vehicle was sold or trans- ferred and the last registered
owner provides the towing service with the correct identity and address of the
new owner at the time of the sale or transfer.
      (3)   If the presumption established under this division (B) is rebutted,
the person responsible for theft of the vehicle or to whom the vehicle was sold
or transferred is liable for all towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-214)
CHAPTER 78: SNOWMOBILES
Section
General Provisions
   
78.01   Definitions
   
78.02   Application and jurisdiction
   
78.03   Enforcement and inspection
   
78.04   Registration of snowmobiles
Operation
   
78.20   Snowmobile equipment
   
78.21   General speed restrictions
   
78.22   Reckless driving
   
78.23   Racing
   
78.24   Minimum speed regulation
   
78.25   Driving on right side of roadway
   
78.26   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
78.27   Additional limitations on driving to the left of center of the roadway
   
78.28   Following too closely
   
78.29   Starting parked snowmobile
   
78.30   Signals required
   
78.31   Signal by hand or arm or signal device
   
78.32   Right-of-way
   
78.33   Right-of-way when turning left
   
78.34   Snowmobile entering stop intersection
   
78.35   Snowmobile entering a yield intersection
   
78.36   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
78.37   Accidents
   
78.38   Pedestrian right-of-way
   
78.39   Persons under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs
   
78.40   Consumption of alcohol by operator prohibited
   
78.41   Obstruction of operator's view or driving mechanism
   
78.42   Obstructing roadways
   
78.43   Horns and warning devices
   
78.44   License required for operation of vehicle
   
78.45   Provisions regarding the carrying of weapons
   
78.46   Limitations for operating snowmobile on state highway
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 78.01 DEFINITIONS.
   DEALER. A dealer means a person, partnership, or corporation engaged in the
business of manufacturing, selling, or leasing snowmobiles at wholesale or
retail.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant substance in
the state Controlled Substance Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq., and
cannabis as defined in the state Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550,
§§ 1 et seq.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person authorized under state statutes to make arrest for
a violation of any statute or ordinance, whether it be a total arrest power of
all statutes or a portion of any statute.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the lines of any highway, road, street,
avenue, alley, or public driveway.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any beverage enumerated in the state Liquor Control
Act, ILCS Ch. Ch 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.
   LOCAL AUTHORITY. The municipal board or body having authority to adopt local
police regulations under the constitution and laws of this state.
   NARCOTIC DRUG. Any substance defined as a narcotic drug in the state
Controlled Substance Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on other than as a passenger, use, or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person other than a lien holder having title to a snowmobile.
   REGISTER. The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile by
state statute and by local ordinance.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term roadway as used in this
chapter refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roads
collectively.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
('74 Code, § 17-226) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.02 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   No portion of this chapter shall preclude the state or its officers or
agents from enforcing the state Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.
('74 Code, § 17-226) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.03 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Enforcement. It is the duty of all city police officers to arrest any
person detected in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection. Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any
snowmobile at any time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this
chapter are being complied with. If the inspecting officer discovers any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, he or she may issue a summons to
the operator of the snowmobile requir- ing that the operator appear before the
circuit court for the county in which the offense was committed. Every
snowmobile subject to this chapter, if underway, and upon being hailed by a
designated law enforcement officer, must stop immediately.
   (C)   Resistance to officers. It is unlawful for any person to resist or
obstruct any peace officer in a discharge of his or her duties under this
chapter.
('74 Code, § 17-227) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.04 REGISTRATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Operation of unnumbered snowmobiles. Except as otherwise provided in
the ILCS Ch. 625, no person shall, after the effective date of this act,
operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits unless the snowmobile has
been registered and numbered in accordance with the provisions of the state
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.
   (B)   Municipal registration. All persons owning or operating a snowmobile
within the corporation limits shall purchase from the City Clerk and display
prominently upon the snowmobile a municipal registration decal.
   (C)   Purchase of decal. The City Clerk, upon receipt of payment of the
authorized fee, shall supply a decal to the owner or operator of a snowmobile
upon proof that the owner or operator of that snowmobile has properly
registered same with the state Department of Conservation and has received a
certificate of number indicating such registration.
   (D)   Loss of municipal registration certificate. Should a certificate of
municipal registration become lost, destroyed, or mutilated beyond legibility,
the owner of the snowmobile shall make application to the city clerk for the
replacement of the certificate or decal, giving his or her name, address, and
the number of his or her snowmobile and shall at the same time pay to the City
Clerk a fee of $1.
   (E)   Municipal registration number application. The owner of each
snowmobile requiring numbering by this municipality shall file an application
for number with the City Clerk on forms approved by the City Council. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee paid annually to the City Clerk in
the amount of $1.
('74 Code, § 17-228) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
OPERATION
§ 78.20 SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Headlamp. All snowmobiles in operation shall display at least one
lighted headlamp, white in color, having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
500 feet ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (B)   Taillights. All snowmobiles, while in operation, shall display at
least one red taillight having a minimum candle power of sufficient inten- sity
to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (C)   Brakes. All snowmobiles shall have an operating brake system in good
mechanical condition.
   (D)   Mufflers. No snowmobile shall be sold or offered for sale or operated
unless it is equipped with a sound muffling device installed by the
manufacturer and under no circumstances shall this muffler device be modified
or removed by the owner or operator.
('74 Code, § 17-235) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.21 GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No snowmobile may be driven upon any roadway within the corporate
limits of the city at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper
with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the
safety of any person or property. The fact that the speed of the snowmobile
does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver
of the snowmobile from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing
an intersection, when and going around the curve, when approaching a hillcrest,
when traveling upon any narrow or winding road-way, or when special hazards
exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or
highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid
colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance
with legal requirements and a duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Unless some other speed restriction is established by the posting of
speed limit signs under the authority of the City Council, the maximum speed
limits for snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the city is as follows:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour in any residential or business district.
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in any alley.
      (3)   Twenty miles per hour while passing through any school zone,
properly posted.
('74 Code, § 17-236) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.22 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any snowmobile with a willful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
('74 Code, § 17-237) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.23 RACING.
   No person shall engage in any race on any roadway within the corporate
limits of the city. RACE means the act of two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway, in a situation in which one of the snowmobiles
is beside or to the rear of a snowmobile operated by a competing driver, and
the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or
overtaking him or her, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street or roadway in this
municipality.
('74 Code, § 17-238) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.24 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a snowmobile at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of the snowmobile or in compliance with the
direction of a peace officer.
('74 Code, § 17-239) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.25 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Snowmobiles shall be operated on all roadways as close to the right-hand
side of the roadway as possible. Snowmobiles proceeding in opposite directions
shall pass each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more
than one line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other
at least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as
possible.
('74 Code, § 17-240) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.26 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   No snowmobiles shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway
in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction
unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely
made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
('74 Code, § 17-241) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.27 ADDITIONAL LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF CENTER OF THE ROADWAY.
   No snowmobile shall be driven on the left side of the roadway when
approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the highway where the
driver's view is obstructed, when approaching within 100 feet of, or
traversing, an intersection or railroad grade crossing, or when the view is
obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel,
and no driver may pass to the left where signs or markings are in place to
define a no-passing zone as indicated by pavement striping or appropriate
signing.
('74 Code, § 17-242) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.28 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The operator of a snowmobile shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the highway.
('74 Code, § 17-243) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.29 STARTING PARKED SNOWMOBILE.
   No operator shall start a snowmobile which is stopped, standing, or parked
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
('74 Code, § 17-244) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.30 SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the snowmobile
before turning within a business or residence district.
('74 Code, § 17-245) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.31 SIGNAL BY HAND OR ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   (A)   Requirement. Any stop or turn signal, when required, shall be given
either by means of a hand and arm or by electric turn signal device conforming
to the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625.
('74 Code, § 17-246)
   (B)   Method of giving hand and arm signals. All signals required by this
chapter shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following
manner:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
('74 Code, § 17-247) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.32 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any snowmobile approaching or entering an intersection from a different
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle on the opposite roadway which
is entering from the right at approximately the same time. The driver of the
vehicle or snow- mobile on the left must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle
on the right.
('74 Code, § 17-248) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.33 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The operator of a snowmobile intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of- way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so
close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the snowmobile operator having
so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
('74 Code, § 17-249) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.34 SNOWMOBILE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every operator of a snowmobile approaching a stop intersection indi-
cated by a stop sign, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the operator of the snowmobile shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the operator is moving across or within
the intersection, but the operator having so yielded may proceed at such time
as a safe interval occurs.
('74 Code, § 17-250) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.35 SNOWMOBILE ENTERING A YIELD INTERSECTION.
   The operator of a snowmobile approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such signs slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the operator shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the operator is moving across or within the
intersection. If a snowmobile is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles, after driving past the yield
right-of- way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
('74 Code, § 17-251) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.36 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The operator of any snowmobile shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic-control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with
the provisions of this act, and it shall be unlawful for any snowmobile
operator to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic-control device.
   (B)   Snowmobile traffic facing a steady red signal at an automatic traffic-
control device must stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
to proceed is indicated by a green traffic- control signal.
('74 Code, § 17-252) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.37 ACCIDENTS.
   Operators of snowmobiles involved in any accident with another snowmobile or
any other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident reports in accordance
with the provisions of the state Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.
('74 Code, § 17-253) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.38 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of all snowmobiles shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down
or stopping if need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing a roadway within a
crosswalk, but in any case every driver of a snowmobile shall exercise due care
to avoid colliding with any pedestrian and shall give warning by sounding the
horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any obviously confused, incapacitated, or intoxicated person.
('74 Code, § 17-254) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.39 PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR NARCOTIC DRUGS.
   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive or be
in actual physical control of any snowmobile within this municipality, and
further no person who is an habitual user of or under the influence of any
narcotic drug, or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree
which renders him or her incapable of safely driving a snowmobile, may drive or
be in actual physical control of any snowmobile within the corporate limits of
the city.
('74 Code, § 17-255) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.40 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY OPERATOR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor while operating a snowmobile
within the city, and any alcoholic liquor transported in a snowmobile shall be
in its original package and with the seal unbroken.
('74 Code, § 17-256) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.41 OBSTRUCTION OF OPERATOR'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile when it is so loaded with passengers as
to obstruct the operator's view or his or her operation of the driving
mechanism.
('74 Code, § 17-257) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.42 OBSTRUCTING ROADWAYS.
   No operator shall willfully or unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay or
attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other person unlawfully driving or
traveling along or upon any roadway within the corporate limits of the city.
('74 Code, § 17-258) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.43 HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   All snowmobiles, when operated upon a road- way in this municipality, shall
be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. No snowmobile shall be equipped with any siren, whistle, or bell.
('74 Code, § 17-259) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.44 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the city on any roadway unless
they are in possession of a valid operator's license issued by the state or are
a resident of another state and possess a valid operator's license from that
state.
('74 Code, § 17-260) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.45 PROVISIONS REGARDING THE CARRYING OF WEAPONS.
   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his or her possession unless it is unloaded and
enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow unless it is in a carrying case.
('74 Code, § 17-261) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
§ 78.46 LIMITATIONS FOR OPERATING SNOWMOBILE ON STATE HIGHWAY.
   No person may operate a snowmobile on any state highway within the limits of
the city, except to cross the state highway at a 90° angle, yielding to all
traffic and crossing only when it is safe to do so.
('74 Code, § 17-262) (Ord. 972, passed 1-15-80)
CHAPTER 79: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Yield right-of-way intersections
   
IV.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are hereby established as one-way streets, and it
shall be unlawful for traffic to move other than in the indicated direction on
such streets:
 
Street                                          Direction  Ord. No. Date Passed
Monroe Street, between Washington Street and    Northbound 664      1-17-61
Adams Street
North half of the alley between South Monroe
Street and South Madison Street, directly off   Southbound 664      1-17-61
East Washington Street
Madison Street, between Adams Street and        Southbound 664      1-17-61
Washington Street
Adams Street, between Madison Street and Monroe Westbound  664      1-17-61
Street
 
('74 Code, § 17-57) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Duty to stop and yield right-of-way. The streets and parts of streets
of the city designated by division (B) as through streets are hereby declared
to be through streets, and the driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance
to a through street and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which
have entered the intersection or which are approaching so close on a through
street as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless otherwise directed by a
traffic officer or a traffic-control signal.
   (B)   Enumeration. The following streets and portions of streets are
designated as through streets:
Street Location Ord. No Date Passed
Street              Location                                Ord. No Date Passed
Adams Street        From the west line of Clinton Street to —
                    Grove Street
Adams Street        From Memorial Street to Clinton Street  —
Benson Street       Between Memorial Street and Jackson     —
                    Street
Clarksville Road    South of Fayette Street                 —
Curtis Street       From Walnut Street to Clarksville Road  —
Dutton Street       North of Mill Street                    —
Dutton Street       South of Mill Street                    —
East Fayette Street East of South Madison Street            —
Grant Street        —                                     —
Grove Street        Between Washington Street and Perry     —
                    Street
Jackson Street      North of Washington Street              —
Jefferson Street    Between Memorial Street and Grove       —
                    Street
Jill Street         —                                     1176    - -96
Madison Street      Between Perry Street and Adams Street   —
Madison Street      Between Perry Street and Benson Street  —
Madison Street      South of Fayette Street                 —
Meadow Street       —                                     —
Memorial Street     Between Jefferson Street and Washington —
                    Street
Memorial Street     South to Jefferson Street               —
Memorial Street     South of West Washington Street         —
Mill Street         —                                     —     —
Monroe Street     Between Fayette Street and Higbee Street   —
Perry Street      Between Jackson Street and Memorial Street —
Perry Street      West of Memorial Street                    —
Piper Lane        —                                        —
Walnut Street     From Grant Street to Curtis Street         —
Washington Street East of Madison Street                     —
Washington Street West of Madison Street                     —
West Perry Street From North Memorial Street to Grove Street —
 
('74 Code, § 17-103) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 683, passed 9-5-61;
Am. Ord. 726, passed 1-21-64; Am. Ord. 735, passed 9-15-64) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are hereby established as yield right-of-way
intersections:
 
Yield Street                Through Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Cherry Street               Lowry Street   —
Memorial Street, southbound Fair Street    1172     1-2-96
Willow Drive                Lowry Street   —      —
 
('74 Code, § 17-106) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 844, passed 6-1-71)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Stop Street Through Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop Street                    Through Street             Ord. No. Date Passed
Adams Street                   Franklin Street            1169     12-5-95
Clare Street                   South Madison Street                
Clinton Street                 Adams Street                        
Clinton Street                 Grant Street                        
Crossman Lane                  Clarksville Road                    
Curtis Street                  Walnut Street                       
Dutton Street                  Mill Street                         
East Adams Street              North Illinois Street               
East Clare Street              South Illinois Street               
East Fayette Street,           South Illinois Street      1370     12-18-07
northbound and southbound
East Fayette Street            South Jackson Street       1176     - -96
East Jefferson Street          North Illinois Street               
East Kespohl Street            Roosevelt Street           1370     12-18-07
East North Street              North Illinois Street               
East Perry Street              North Illinois Street               
Fair Street                    Clarksville Road                    
Faith Street,
southeast corner of            243rd Street               1702     8-2-22
intersection
Faith Way                      243rd Avenue               1370     12-18-07
Faith Way                      Leon Lane                  1370     12-18-07
Fayette Street                 Memorial Street                     
Grove Street                   Perry Street               1495     6-4-13
Higbee Street                  Jackson Street                      
Hope Avenue                    243rd Avenue               1370     12-18-07
Hope Street,
southeast corner of            243rd Street               1702     8-2-22
intersection
Jefferson Street               Memorial Street                     
Justice Drive                  Lakeview Heights           1370     12-18-07
Kespohl Street                 Roosevelt Street                    
Lakeview Drive                 Lakeview Heights           1370     12-18-07
Leon Lane                      243rd Avenue               1370     12-18-07
Leon Street,
southeast corner of            243rd Street               1702     8-2-22
intersection
Lowry Street                   Cherry Street                       
Madison Street                 Fayette Street                      
Madison Street                 Higbee Street                       
Madison Street                 Perry Street               1499     7-16-13
Memorial Street,               Fair Street                1172     1-2-96
southbound
Mill Street                    Dutton Street                       
Monroe Street                  Perry Street               1667     11-3-20
North Illinois Street          East Fayette Street                 
North Industrial Park Drive,
northwest corner of            East Industrial Park Drive 1703     8-2-22
intersection
North Memorial Street          West Benson Street                  
North Madison Street           East Jefferson Street               
North Madison Street           East Perry Street                   
North Memorial Street,         West Perry Street          1176;    - -96;
eastbound and westbound                                   1370     12-18-07
North Monroe Street            East Jefferson Street               
North Monroe Street            East Perry Street                   
Orchard Street                 Gay Street                          
Panther Creek Drive            Lakeview Heights           1370     12-18-07
Prospect Street                South Clinton Street                
South Cherry Street            Jill Street                1176     - -96
South Clinton Street           Prospect Street                     
South Illinois Street          East Fayette Street                 
South Illinois Street          Morrison Street            1370     12-18-07
South Memorial Street          Higbee Street              1166     9-19-95
South Monroe Street            East Fayette Street                 
West Adams Street              North Memorial Street               
West Fayette Street, eastbound Clinton Street             1370     12-18-07
and westbound
West Fayette Street            South Memorial Street               
 
   (B)   The following intersections shall be stop intersections as directed by
signal lights: Washington Street at Madison Street.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
schedule, each intersection with a street designated in this chapter as a
through street is hereby designated a stop intersection as to all entries onto
the through street, except as to beginning and terminus of the through streets,
unless otherwise indicated in this schedule.
   (D)   The following intersections are stop intersections from the first day
of September until the last day of June of each year, except Saturdays and
Sundays, during the hours from 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m., that is, during
school hours:
      (1)   Crosswalks at Higbee High School with Jefferson Street;
      (2)   Crosswalks at Pittsfield High School with Higbee Street;
      (3)   Crosswalks at South Grade School with Clarksville Road;
      (4)   Jefferson and Illinois Streets; and
      (5)   Perry and Illinois Streets.
('74 Code, § 17-105) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 735, passed 9-15-64;
Am. Ord. 750, passed 7-6-65; Am. Ord. 800, passed 9-3-68; Am. Ord. 829, passed
7-21-70; Am. Ord. 874, passed 6-19-73; Am. Ord. 897, passed 6-18-74; Am. Ord.
900, passed 8-20-74; Am. Ord. 915, passed 8-19-75) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 80: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Time restrictions at certain locations
   
III.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any
vehicle other than horses and horse-drawn vehicles in the three parking spaces
in the southwest corner of the municipal parking lot located on Lot Six, Block
Four of the Original Town, now the City of Pittsfield.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any
motor vehicle, tractor, trailer, or combination thereof weighing in excess of
10,000 pounds, overnight, on the north side of West Benson Street between
Memorial Street and Madison Street.
(Ord. 1135, passed 7-19-94)
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a vehicle or permit any vehicle to stand at any
time in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control device:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                  Location                      Ord. No. Date Passed
                        On the south side, between
Adams Street, West      Grove Street and Clinton      —      —
                        Street
                        Along either side of the
                        alley running north and south
Alley                   between East North Street and 1135     7-19-94
                        East Griggsville Street and
                        extending south from Lincoln
                        Street
                        Along either side of the
                        alley running north and south
Alley                   between West Jefferson Street 1135     7-19-94
                        and West Perry Street,
                        between Mississippi Street
                        and North Orchard Street
Archer Street           East side between Fayette     1372     3-18-08
                        Street and Washington Street
                        On the south side, between
Benson Street           Memorial Street and Madison   —      —
                        Street
                        From the intersection of U.S.
                        Route 36 North to a point on
Jackson Street          S.B.I. 107, approximately     —      —
                        1,566 feet north of Benson
                        Street
Madison Street          One space in front of 231     1646     10-15-19
                        North Madison Street
Mill Street             —                           —      —
                        On the east side, between
Mississippi Street      Washington Street and Fayette —      —
                        Street
                        On the west side, between
Mississippi Street      Washington Street and Fayette —      —
                        Street
U.S. Route 36           From Archer Street to         —      —
                        Shetland Drive
                        On either side, east from a
Washington Street (U.S. point 220 feet east of        —      —
Routes 36 and 54)       Liberty Court to the west
                        line of Archer Street
Washington Street (U.S. On the south side, from
Route 36)               Archer Street to Memorial     —      —
                        Street
                        On the north side, at the
Washington Street (U.S. corner of Franklin Street,    —      —
Route 36)               along McDonald's restaurant
                        parking lot
                        From Memorial Street to 88
Washington Street, West feet east of the east edge of 116      12-15-92
                        Mississippi Street
 
('74 Code, § 17-155) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 683, passed 9-5-61;
Am. Ord. 792, passed 3-5-68; Am. Ord. 824, passed 2-17-70; Am. Ord. 877, passed
7-3-73; Am. Ord. 987, passed 1-20-81; Am. Ord. 1051, passed 4-1-86; Am. Ord.
1055, passed 5-20-86) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: TIME RESTRICTIONS AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   On Mondays through Saturdays inclusive, it shall be unlawful to park a motor
vehicle at the following locations during the designated hours for more than
the indicated time:
 
Street          Location              Limitation          Ord. No. Date Passed
                On the west side,
                between its           30 minutes, between
Memorial Street intersection with     the hours of 1:00   —
                Adams Street and a    p.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                point 80 feet north
                thereof
                On the west side,
                being the south 50    5 minutes, between
Madison Street  feet thereof between  the hours of 8:00   —      —
                Washington Street and a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                Madison Street
 
('74 Code, § 17-158) (Ord. 664, passed 1-17-61; Am. Ord. 735, passed 9-15-64;
Am. Ord. 950, passed 12-20-77) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The following parking spaces shall be reserved for handicapped parking:
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                     Ord. Date
                                                                             No.  Passed
1 space on Adams Street on the southeast corner of the intersection at Adams 1572 11-1-
Street and Monroe Street                                                          16
1 space on Adams Street on the southwest corner of the intersection at West 1572 11-1-
Adams Street and North Madison Street                                             16
1 space in front of Casteel Color Wheel, 110 West Adams Street               1453 3-20-
                                                                                  12
1 space in front of 118 East Adams Street                                    1454 4-3-12
1 space on East Adams Street on the northwest corner of the intersection at  1570 9-20-
North Monroe Street and East Adams Street                                         16
                                                                             1465 7-17-
5 spaces in Landess Terrace                                                  1497 12
                                                                                  7-2-13
1 space on Madison Street on the southwest corner of the intersection at     1572 11-1-
West Adams Street and North Madison Street                                        16
1 space on South Madison Street on the southeast corner of the intersection  1572 11-1-
at Washington Street and South Madison Street                                     16
1 space at the first parking place at the southwest corner of the
intersection at Monroe Street and Washington Street, for access to the Pike  1689 1-18-
County Government building with access to the sidewalk along Washington           22
Street
 
CHAPTER 81: NEIGHBORHOOD GAS-POWERED AND ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Section
   
81.01   Operation of neighborhood fuel-powered and electric vehicles
§ 81.01 OPERATION OF NEIGHBORHOOD FUEL-POWERED AND ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a neighborhood fuel-powered
or electric vehicle on any street or roadway within the city, except as
expressly authorized in this section.
   (A)   NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE (ANV@) means a self-propelled, electronically
powered four-wheeled motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, internal combustion
engine fuel-powered four-wheeled motor vehicle with an engine displacement
under 1,200 cubic centimeters) which is capable of attaining in one mile a
speed of more than 20 miles per hour, but not more than 25 miles per hour,
which meets the minimum equipment standards as are hereinafter provided, and
which conforms to the federal regulations under Title 49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
   (B)   An NV, after first being registered with the city as hereinafter
provided, may be operated only on streets within the city where the posted
speed is 35 miles per hour or less; however, an NV may cross a street at an
intersection where the street has a posted speed limit of more than 35 miles
per hour. No person operating a NV shall make a direct crossing upon or across
any other highway under the jurisdiction of the state except at an intersection
of the highway with another public street, road or highway.
   (C)   No neighborhood vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview
mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving
emblem (as required of other vehicles in ILCS Ch. 625, Act. 5, § 12-709 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code) on the rear of the neighborhood vehicle, a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a
tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear,
brake lights and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a neighborhood
vehicle shall have its headlights and tail lamps lighted as required by ILCS
Ch. 625, Act. 5, § 12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (D)   An NV shall be insured pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 7-601 et
seq. which mandates that vehicles operated on public roads be covered by a
liability insurance policy.
   (E)   Further, an NV shall have a windshield of AS-1 or AS-5 composition,
that conforms to the American National Standard Institute’s “Safety Code for
Safety Glazing Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operating on Land
Highways.” Z-26.1 B 1977, January 28, 1977, as supplemented by Z-26.la, July
3,1980. Additionally, an NV shall have a VIN that conforms to the requirements
of part 565 Vehicle Identification Number of Chapter V, Title 49 of the C.F.R.
An NV must also be equipped with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly
conforming to § 571.209 of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 209,
seat belt assemblies, installed at each designated seating position.
   (F)   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
neighborhood vehicle or a street or roadway while under the influence of any
intoxicating substance is subject to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11 -500 through 11-
502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (G)   Any person who intends to operate an NV within the city shall register
the NV with and obtain from the City Clerk or his or her designee, an annual NV
permit, for a fee of $50, which shall be valid for the calendar year in which
it was issued. The permit shall be visibly displayed on the windshield of the
vehicle. Prior to issuance of such NV permit, the Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall determine whether the NV meets the minimum equipment standards
as set forth herein above.
   (H)   Any and all operators of an NV must comply with all requirements of
the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the operation of
an NV by persons other than fully licensed operators or upon any street or
public way or surface other than as expressly permitted herein.
(Ord. 1395, passed 2-3-09; Am. Ord. 1398, passed 3-3-09; Am. Ord. 1631, passed
4-16-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   AIRPORT
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   RESERVOIR
      
94.   LIBRARY
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   WEED CONTROL
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
      
99.   SHADE TREES
      
100.   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
      
101.   FOWL
      
102.   BRUSH YARD PERMIT
CHAPTER 90: AIRPORT
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Scope
   
90.003   Removal; evictions
   
90.004   Lost articles
   
90.005   Liability
   
90.006   Accident reports
   
90.007   Buildings and structures
   
90.008   Fuel; flammable liquids
   
90.009   Commercial activity
   
90.010   Flight instruction
   
90.011   Exemption of acts by city
   
90.012   Civil liability
Vehicles
   
90.020   License and registration
   
90.021   Operation
   
90.022   Repair of vehicles and aircraft
   
90.023   Parking; leaving; loading and unloading
   
90.024   Carriers for hire
Aircraft Operation
   
90.035   Aeronautical activities
   
90.036   Fixed base registration
   
90.037   Payment before departure
   
90.038   Accident reports
   
90.039   Refusal of clearance
   
90.040   Closing of field
   
90.041   Disabled aircraft
   
90.042   Repairs
   
90.043   Parking
   
90.044   Demonstrations
   
90.045   Lighting damage
   
90.046   Categories of aircraft
   
90.047   Radio contact
   
90.048   Taxiing rules
   
90.049   Landing; takeoff
Public and Tenant Use
   
90.060   Disorderly conduct
   
90.061   Sanitation
   
90.062   Preservation of property
   
90.063   Weapons, explosives and the like
   
90.064   Interfering or tampering with aircraft
   
90.065   Restricted areas
   
90.066   Roads and walks
   
90.067   Animals
   
90.068   Loitering
   
90.069   Business and commercial activity
   
90.070   Open flames; smoking
   
90.071   Trash containers; waste hauling vehicles
   
90.072   Equipment storage
   
90.073   Equipment and other items in apron area
   
90.074   Maintenance
   
90.075   Fire equipment
   
90.076   Structural and decorative changes
   
90.077   Damage
   
90.078   Payment of charges
   
90.079   Default
   
90.080   Use of other law enforcement agencies
   
90.081   Hangars
Schedule of Charges
   
90.090   Private and commercial aircraft
   
90.091   Landing fees
   
90.092   Field use and parking fees
Contracts; Terms of Tenancy
   
90.100   Contracts required; authority of city
   
90.101   Duties of tenants; terms of contracts
   
90.102   Termination of contracts
   
90.103   Evidence of experience
   
90.104   Financial responsibility; minimum investment; personnel requirements
   
90.105   Maintenance
   
90.106   Insurance
   
90.107   Creditors
   
90.108   Lease Renewal
   
90.109   Hangar Lease
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT LAND. Land owned by the city that is being farmed or not presently
used as airport land.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation of or flight in, air.
   AIRPORT. Any property used for runways, taxiways, buildings and adjacent
property where no crops are raised.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. An employee of the city designated to act as its
representative in the management of the airport.
   PREMISES. Areas adjacent to areas of land owned by the city in the southwest
quarter of Section Eight, plus part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
quarter and part of the southeast quarter of Section Seven, all in Township
Five South, Range Three West of the Fourth Principal Meridian in the county.
   PUBLIC AIRCRAFT FACILITIES. The following facilities as they are, from time
to time, provided and made available by the city for public use by all aircraft
and aircraft operators:
      (A)   Public runways for the purpose of landing and taking off of
aircraft.
      (B)   Public taxiways for the purpose of ground movement of aircraft.
      (C)   Public aircraft parking space for the purpose of parking and
storing aircraft, loading and unloading passengers, baggage, freight, mail and
other cargo upon and from aircraft, performing operations incidental to the
immediate arrival and departure of aircraft and servicing with fuel and for
parking mobile equipment actively used in connection with the foregoing.
      (D)   The area in the vicinity of the terminal building known as ramp or
apron space (and any future additions and improvements thereto) provided for
the purpose of loading and unloading passengers, baggage, freight, mail and
other cargo to or from aircraft for the purpose of performing operations
incidental to the immediate preparation of aircraft for departure, such as
servicing with fuel and inspection, and for the purpose of parking mobile
equipment actively used in connection with the foregoing.
      (E)   Any other space provided by the city for public use by aircraft
operators at the airport.
   VEHICLE. Any car, truck motorcycle, tractor and the like not intended for
flying.
('74 Code, § 2.5-1) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.002 SCOPE.
   All persons on any part of the property comprising the airport shall be
governed by the regulations prescribed in this chapter and by others and
instructions of the Airport Manager relative to the use or occupation of any
part of the property comprising the airport. These regulations are subject to
amendment.
('74 Code, § 2.5-2) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 REMOVAL; EVICTIONS.
   The Airport Manager may remove or evict from the airport premises any person
who knowingly or willfully violates any rule or regulation prescribed herein,
or any rule or regulation in effect by the Federal Aviation Administration or
the state, and may deny the use of the airport and its facilities to any such
person if it is determined denial is in the public interest.
('74 Code, § 2.5-3) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 LOST ARTICLES.
   All lost articles shall be turned in to the Airport Manager's office by the
finder. Any articles not claimed in 30 days will be disposed of as determined
by the Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-4) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 LIABILITY.
   The city assumes no responsibility for loss, injury, or damage to persons or
property by reason of fire, theft, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake or
collision damage, nor does it assume any liability for injury to persons while
at the airport or while using its facilities.
('74 Code, § 2.5-5) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   All persons involved in any accident, whether personal, aircraft or
automotive, occurring on the premises of the airport shall make a report to the
Airport Manager as soon as possible, giving all pertinent information.
('74 Code, § 2.5-6) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   No building or structure shall be constructed, altered or maintained unless
a permit in writing therefor, based upon a written application, setting forth
the location, specification, and intended use thereof, is granted by the city.
It is the intention of these rules and regulations to comply with the master
plan.
('74 Code, § 2.5-7) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 FUEL; FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   Storage.
      (1)   No person shall keep or store any inflammable liquids, gases,
signal flares or other similar material in the hangars or any building at the
airport. Those materials may be kept in an aircraft in the proper receptacles
installed in the aircraft for such purpose or in rooms or areas specifically
approved for that storage by the Airport Manager or in underwriter-approved
safety cans.
      (2)   No person shall keep or store more than 24 quarts of lubricating
oil in a hangar. The oil shall be in sealed cans, containers or receptacles
approved by insurance underwriters.
      (3)   Storage of waste, soiled rags or rubbish is prohibited in hangars.
   (B)   Doping and painting. Painting and doping will not be permitted, except
in repair shops and in approved areas. In no case will aircraft painting be
permitted in the T-hangars.
   (C)   Fueling operations.
      (1)   All aviation fuels will be dispensed on airport property only by
the city.
      (2)   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while the engine is running
or being warmed by applications of exterior heat or while the aircraft is in a
hangar or enclosed space.
      (3)   No person shall operate any radio transmitter or receiver or switch
electrical equipment off or on in an aircraft during fueling operations.
      (4)   During refueling the aircraft and the fueling dispensing apparatus
shall be grounded to a point of zero electrical potential.
      (5)   No person shall smoke within 50 feet of aircraft being fueled or
defueled.
      (6)   No person shall use any material or equipment during fueling or
defueling of aircraft which is likely to cause a spark or ignition.
      (7)   Adequate fire extinguishers shall be within ready reach of all
persons engaged in fueling or defueling aircraft.
      (8)   No person shall start the engine of any aircraft when there is any
gasoline on the ground under the aircraft.
      (9)   Fueling hoses and equipment shall be maintained in a safe, sound
and non-leaking condition and shall be approved by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters in all respects and parts.
      (10)   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while passengers are on
board the aircraft unless a passenger-loading ramp is in place at the cabin
door of the aircraft, the aircraft door is in open position and a cabin
attendant is at or near the cabin door.
      (11)   Persons engaged in the fueling and draining of aircraft shall
exercise care to prevent overflow of fuel. Persons responsible will take proper
measures to remove volatile liquids when spilled during transfer.
   (D)   Storage in apron area. Gasoline, oil and solvent drums or receptacles
shall not be stored on apron and ramp areas in excess of amounts actually
needed as current stock. Any material of this type that is kept in subject
areas shall be kept enclosed and covered in a housing of a design and type that
meets the approval of the Airport Manager.
   (E)   Liquid disposal. No insecticides, herbicides, fuels, oils, dopes,
paints, solvents or acids shall be disposed of or dumped in drains, on the ramp
areas, catch basins, ditches or elsewhere at the airport.
('74 Code, § 2.5-14) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.
   No aircraft owner or aviation organization shall engage in any commercial
activities of any type at the airport unless prior permission and certification
is obtained from the city on terms fixed by the city.
('74 Code, § 2.5-16) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 FLIGHT INSTRUCTION.
   No person shall engage in flight instruction at the airport unless, before
giving instructions, the person's current fight instructor's certificate has
been presented to the Airport Manager and the person has been granted a permit
by the city. No person holding only a student permit shall be allowed to solo
an aircraft from the airport unless under the direct supervision of a pilot
holding a valid instructor's certificate of the proper grade and rating.
('74 Code, § 2.5-16) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 EXEMPTION OF ACTS BY CITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply or be construed to prevent or penalize
anything done or caused by the city in constructing, operating, improving,
repairing, maintaining, patrolling, policing, protecting or caring for the
airport.
('74 Code, § 2.5-17) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.012 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.001 through
90.008, §
90.011, §§
90.020 through
90.024, §§
90.035 through
90.043(A), §§
90.044 through
90.049, §§
90.060 through
90.081 and §§
90.090 through
90.092 shall become liable for all damage and expense thereby caused by the
city or any other person or persons by reason of the violation, in addition to
the criminal penalties provided in §
90.999.
('74 Code, § 2.5-19) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77)
VEHICLES
§ 90.020 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate motorized ground equipment of any kind at the
airport without a valid operator's license.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle in the aircraft facilities
area or landing area without having first obtained permission of the Airport
Manager for the operation of that equipment.
('74 Code, § 2.5-8) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle of any kind at the airport in
a reckless or negligent manner or in excess of the speed limits prescribed by
the city. Speed limits shall not exceed 15 miles per hour on ramp or apron
areas or aircraft parking and hangar areas.
   (B)   Pedestrians and aircraft at all times shall have right-of-way over
vehicular traffic. All vehicles shall pass to the rear of taxiing aircraft.
   (C)   No person operating a motor vehicle at the airport shall fail to give
proper signals or fail to observe the directions of posted traffic signs.
   (D)   No person under the influence of liquor or narcotic drugs shall
operate a motor vehicle or aircraft at the airport.
   (E)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the airport overloaded or
carrying more passengers than that for which the vehicle was designed. No
person shall ride on the running board, stand in the body of a moving vehicle,
ride on the outside of the body of a vehicle, or with arms or legs protruding
from the body of a motor vehicle.
   (F)   No vehicle shall be operated at the airport if it is constructed,
equipped or loaded as to endanger persons or property.
   (G)   No person shall operate a motor scooter, truck or other motor vehicle
without exhaust protected by screens or baffles to prevent the escape of sparks
or the propagation of flame at the airport.
   (H)   When parking adjacent to a runway, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the runway and at least 100 feet to the outside of the runway lights.
   (I)   All vehicles which are authorized to operate in the runway area shall
display an orange flag of approximately three square feet on a mast attached to
the outside of the vehicle. All vehicles operating at the airport between the
hours or sunset and sunrise shall have fully operational headlights and
taillights visible at least 500 feet and all gasoline trucks and service trucks
shall carry an overhead 360° revolving red or amber beacon.
('74 Code, § 2.5-9) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 REPAIR OF VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   No person shall clean or make any repairs to motor vehicles or
aircraft anywhere at the airport other than in designated areas, except those
minor repairs necessary to remove the motor vehicle or aircraft from the
airport.
   (B)   No person shall move, interfere with or tamper with any motor vehicle
or aircraft or put in motion the engine or take or use any motor vehicle part,
aircraft part, instrument or tool thereof without the permission of the owner
or satisfactory evidence of the right to do so duly presented to the Airport
Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-10) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 PARKING; LEAVING; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle for loading, unloading or any
other purpose at the airport, other than in the areas specifically established
for parking and in the manner prescribed by signs, lines or other means.
   (B)   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle at the airport.
   (C)   No person shall park a motor vehicle in a manner so as to obstruct
roadways, nor in aircraft parking areas, on grass areas, nor leave the engine
running while the motor vehicle is unattended.
   (D)   The Airport Manager shall have the authority to tow or otherwise move,
at the operator's expense, motor vehicles which are parked by their owners or
operators at the airport in violation of the regulations of the airport.
   (E)   Any vehicle covered by these regulations is parked when the vehicle is
not in motion and there is no one present to attend the vehicle.
('74 Code, § 2.5-11) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 CARRIERS FOR HIRE.
   No carrier for hire shall load or unload passengers at the airport at any
place other than that designated by the Airport Manager, nor shall the
conveyance operate at the airport without a contract with the city, or without
expressed approval of the Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-12) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Vehicles for hire, see
Ch. 114
AIRCRAFT OPERATION
§ 90.035 AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES.
   All aeronautical activities at this airport and all flying of aircraft
departing from or arriving in the airspace above the airport, shall be
conducted in conformity with the current pertinent provisions of the Federal
Aviation Administration, Civil Aeronautics Board, State of Illinois Department
of Aeronautics and orders issued by the Airport Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 FIXED BASE REGISTRATION.
   The owners of all aircraft based at the airport shall register their
aircraft with the Airport Manager's office before beginning operation. Any
change in the ownership shall require a change in registration.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 PAYMENT BEFORE DEPARTURE.
   Payment for the use of airport facilities, storage and other charges levied
by the city shall be made before departure. Fuel and line services will be paid
at the time of servicing.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Persons involved in aircraft accidents/incidents occurring at the airport,
immediately or as soon as possible, shall make a full report thereof to the
Airport Manager for transmittal to the Illinois Division of Aeronautics. The
report shall include names, addresses and all pertinent information. When a
written report of an accident is required by Federal Aviation Administration
regulations, a copy of it will be submitted to the Manager in lieu of the
report required above.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 REFUSAL OF CLEARANCE.
   The Airport Manager may delay or restrict any flight or other operations at
the airport to any aircraft for any justifiable reason.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 CLOSING OF FIELD.
   In the event the Airport Manager believes the conditions at the airport, or
any part of it, are unsafe for landings or takeoffs, it shall be within his or
her authority to issue a NOTAM closing the entire airport or any part thereof.
This shall be filed with the flight service station. The same procedure will be
followed when the field is usable again.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 DISABLED AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   All disabled aircraft and parts thereof at the airport promptly shall
be removed by the owners from public view.
   (B)   If any person refuses to move an aircraft as directed by the Airport
Manager it may be towed away by the Manager at the owner's or operator's
expense.
   (C)   Division (B) above also applies to removal of wrecked or damaged
aircraft and parts, unless instructed otherwise for the purpose of
investigation the by Federal Aviation Administration or National Transportation
Safety Board.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 REPAIRS.
   No person or firm shall repair an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller or
other aeronautical equipment or apparatus, nor employ a certificated aircraft
mechanic in any area of the airport other than that specifically designated for
such purposes by the Airport Manager, except that minor adjustments may be made
while the aircraft is on a loading ramp, preparatory to takeoff, and when the
adjustment is necessary to prevent a delayed departure.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park an aircraft in any area at the airport other than
that prescribed by the Airport Manager.
   (B)   Aircraft left at fueling stations an unusual length of time will be
moved and parked at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Pilots are responsible for securing their aircraft.
   (D)   The Manager reserves the right to designate specific parking areas for
use by any or all aircraft at anytime.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 DEMONSTRATIONS.
   No experimental flight or ground demonstrations shall be conducted on the
airport without the expressed approval of the Airport Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045 LIGHTING DAMAGE.
   Any person damaging any light or fixture shall report that damage to the
Airport Managers' office immediately and shall be fully responsible for any
costs required to repair or replace the damaged facility.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 CATEGORIES OF AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   Private.
      (1)   Privately owned aircraft will be operated non-commercially by the
owner.
      (2)   Private aircraft may be used by persons other than the owner,
provided no part of the cost of operation of the aircraft is received in money
or otherwise by the owner for the use.
      (3)   The aircraft can be used in connection with the owner's business,
comparable to the owner's use of his or her private automobile.
      (4)   Company- and corporation-owned aircraft operated for the free
transportation of the company's or corporation's own and other personnel and/or
products are classified as private aircraft and subject to the restrictions
listed in division (A)(2) above.
      (5)   Club aircraft must be owned and operated by a nonprofit partnership
or nonprofit Illinois corporation and each club member must be a bona fide
owner of a part of the aircraft or a share in the corporation.
         (a)   The club may not derive greater revenue from the use of its
aircraft than the amount necessary for the operation, maintenance and replace-
ment of its aircraft, and will file and keep up to date with the Airport
Manager a list of its membership.
         (b)   When the Manager believes a club aircraft is being operated so
it falls under the commercial classification hereunder, he or she shall notify
the club and the city. If the club fails to remedy the condition complained of,
the Manager shall reclassify the aircraft and levy fees necessary to the
pertinent type of operation.
      (6)   New or used aircraft held for sale may be demonstrated to
prospective purchasers or, when sold, may be used to instruct the new owner in
the aircraft operation.
   (B)   Commercial. Commercial aircraft are used:
         (1)   To carry passengers for hire
         (2)   For rental or charter
         (3)   Student instruction
         (4)   Any aircraft used for commercial purposes and not otherwise
covered in these regulations.
   (C)   Category designation. Final determination as to proper category
designation of any aircraft shall rest with the city.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 RADIO CONTACT.
   Radio telephone (Unicom 122.8) will be used for pilot advisory only and not
for traffic control.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 TAXIING RULES.
   (A)   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained there
will be no danger of collision with any person or object.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (C)   All taxiing will be confined to taxi strips, unless otherwise
authorized by the Airport Manager.
   (D)   No person shall start or run the engine of any aircraft at any
location at the airport in such a manner as to cause injury to persons, damage
to other aircraft or property, or in such a manner as to blow paper, dirt or
other materials across taxiways or runways in such a manner as to endanger the
safety or operations of the airport.
('74 Code, § 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 LANDING; TAKEOFF.
   (A)   Fixed wing aircraft will land and take off on runways.
   (B)   In all cases, takeoffs and landings over populated areas shall be kept
to a minimum in the interest of public safety and convenience.
   (C)   Prior authorization is required before airships, dirigibles, motorless
aircraft or aircraft with a gross weight of more than 12,500 pounds may land.
('74 Code, 2.5-13) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
PUBLIC AND TENANT USE
§ 90.060 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall be or become intoxicated or drunk, commit any disorderly,
obscene or indecent act; commit any act of nuisance or conduct or engage in any
form of gambling on airport property.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061 SANITATION.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or other material at the airport
except in the receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (B)   Use the comfort station other than in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Eat or drink beverages in the terminal building, other than the soft
drinks and candy normally sold in the building.
   (D)   Expectorate on the floors, walls or other surfaces of any airport
building.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall destroy, injure, deface, or disturb in any way, any
building, sign, equipment, marker or other structure, tree, flower, lawn or
other property at the airport; nor alter, make additions to or erect, any
building or sign, or make any excavations to the airport; nor willfully abandon
any personal property at the airport.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063 WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES AND THE LIKE.
   No persons, except peace officers, duly authorized Post Office, airport and
air carrier employees or members of the armed forces of the United States on
official duty shall carry any weapons, explosives or flammable material at the
airport, except cased sporting guns carried for shipment.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064 INTERFERING OR TAMPERING WITH AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall interfere or tamper with an aircraft or put in motion the
engine of the aircraft or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or
tools without permission of the owner or by specific direction of the Airport
Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall enter upon the field area, utilities and service rooms or
areas, or other areas as may be designated restricted, except:
   (A)   Persons assigned to duty therein;
   (B)   Persons authorized by the Airport Manager;
   (C)   Passengers, under appropriate supervision, entering the apron for the
purpose of embarking or debarking.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.066 ROADS AND WALKS.
   (A)   No person shall travel on airport property other than on roads, walks
or places provided for the particular class of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall walk in a picket line as a picket or take part in any
labor or other public demonstration on any part of the airport except in those
places the Airport Manager has specifically assigned for use by the picket
lines or other public demonstrations.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall enter the terminal building of the airport with a dog
or other animal, except seeing eye dogs may be permitted in for appropriate
purposes.
   (B)   No person shall trap, kill or wound or attempt to trap, catch, kill or
wound any bird or animal, take any bird egg, molest or rob any bird or animal
or cruelly treat any bird or animal on the premises.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 90.068 LOITERING.
   (A)   No person shall loiter on any part of the airport or in any building
at the airport.
   (B)   No person shall come upon or use the airport except while traveling
through as a passenger on an interstate bus or taxicab or while enplaning or
deplaning as a passenger on an aircraft operating at the airport, after the
person has been denied use of the airport by the Airport Manager.
   (C)   Any person who shall refuse to comply with these applicable rules and
regulations, after proper request to do so by the Manager or other authorized
representative, shall be requested to leave the airport. In the event of his or
her failure to comply with a proper request to abide by the rules and
regulations or the city shall be regarded as a trespasser.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.069 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity of any
nature at the airport, except under contract with the city.
   (B)   No person shall solicit fares, alms or funds at for any purpose at the
airport without the permission of the Airport Manager.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.070 OPEN FLAMES; SMOKING.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any open flame operations in any hangar or at
the airport unless specifically authorized by the Airport Manager.
   (B)   No person shall smoke on the airport apron, in any hangar or shop,
service station area, gasoline storage area or in any building, room or place
at the airport where smoking is prohibited, or within 50 feet of any fueling or
defueling operation.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.071 TRASH CONTAINERS; WASTE HAULING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall keep uncovered trash containers in any area.
   (B)   No vehicle used for hauling trash, dirt or any other material shall be
operated at the airport unless the vehicle is constructed so as to prevent the
contents thereof from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping.
   (C)   Areas to be used for trash or garbage containers shall be designated
by the Airport Manager and no other areas shall be used. The areas shall be
kept clean and sanitary at all times.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.072 EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   No tenant or lessee at the airport shall store or stack materials or
equipment in a manner to constitute a hazard to personnel or property.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.073 EQUIPMENT AND OTHER ITEMS IN APRON AREA.
   All ramp equipment, fueling apparatus, and aircraft wheel blocks shall be
parked or kept in a neat and orderly manner. No receptacles, chests, cases, or
housing shall remain on the apron or ramp area that are not in keeping with the
general architectural and cleanliness standards of the rest of the
installation.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.074 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All lessees at the airport shall keep the floors of the hangars,
hangar areas and terminal apron and ramp areas leased by them, respectively, or
used in their operations, clean and clear of oil, grease, and other materials
or stains, except as may be provided to the contrary in any specific leases or
contracts.
   (B)   All tenants shall be required to maintain their leased property in a
condition of repair, cleanliness and general maintenance in a manner agreeable
to the Airport Manager and in accordance with their individual lease agreements
and free from all fire hazards.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.075 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   All tenants or lessees shall supply and maintain adequate and readily
accessible fire extinguishers as approved by the fire underwriters for the
particular hazard involved.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 STRUCTURAL AND DECORATIVE CHANGES.
   No tenants, lessees or grantees will be permitted to effect structural or
decorative changes or additions of any type without prior permission of the
Airport Manager and with the approval and supervision of the city.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.077 DAMAGE.
   Tenants, lessees and grantees shall be fully responsible for all damages to
buildings, equipment, real property and appurtenances in the ownership or
custody of the city caused by their negligence, abuse or carelessness or caused
by negligence, abuse or carelessness on the part of their employees, agents,
customers, visitors, suppliers or persons with whom they may do business.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.078 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   All billings are payable upon presentation, unless otherwise noted
thereon.
   (B)   All percentage or income charges are payable within ten days of the
end of the accounting period, unless otherwise stipulated in writing.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.079 DEFAULT.
   When any tenant, user or grantee is formally notified he or she is held in
default of any written or implied obligation to the city, whether for breach of
performance or service covenants or nonpayment, thereafter he or she shall be
billed for all losses of revenue, expenses incurred to reestablish performance
or service, and other costs, unless the tenant, user or grantee files with the
Airport Manager, within ten days of receipt of the formal notification, a
statement that corrective or preventative measures have been initiated and will
be diligently carried to completion. If the promises contained in the statement
are not fulfilled, the tenant, user or grantee will be considered in absolute
default and appropriate lawful steps shall be taken by the city.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.080 USE OF OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   In the event occasions arise that are beyond the capability of the regular
Airport Manager, outside law enforcement agencies shall be called for
assistance.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081 HANGARS.
   (A)   Hangar doors shall not be left open for extended periods of time. For
example, a door will be opened to remove aircraft from or into the hangar and
closed immediately.
   (B)   Motor vehicles may be driven to the hangar areas, provided the gates
are shut behind them when they are driven to the hangar areas and provided the
motor vehicles are put inside the hangar and the door is closed at the time
that the vehicle driver leaves the airport. Motor vehicles left outside of
hangars will be towed away at the owner's expense.
('74 Code, § 2.5-15) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
SCHEDULE OF CHARGES
§ 90.090 PRIVATE AND COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT.
   Rates for the rent of T-hangar units will be set by the city on a monthly
basis and reviewed periodically at the city's discretion. A schedule of current
rates will be posted in the Airport Manager's office.
('74 Code, § 2.5-16) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.091 LANDING FEES.
   Landing fees for private or business aircraft at the Pittsfield-Pentone
Municipal Airport will be established by the city and reviewed periodically. If
fees are established, they shall be on file in the office of the Airport
Manager and shall be posted for public inspection.
('74 Code, § 2.5-16) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 FIELD USE AND PARKING FEES.
   Field use and parking fees will be established by the city and reviewed
periodically. If fees are established, they shall be on file in the office of
the Airport Manager and shall be posted for public inspection.
('74 Code, § 2.5-16) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
CONTRACTS; TERMS OF TENANCY
§ 90.100 CONTRACTS REQUIRED; AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   (A)   No person or firm or corporation shall use the Pittsfield-Pentone
Municipal Airport as a base or terminal for any general aviation operations,
including fixed base operator, local operator, aircraft maintenance,
nonscheduled or scheduled carrying of passengers, freight, express, mail,
spraying, student training, aircraft sales, sale or rental of any commodity,
supplies or services or any business or commercial activity within the limits
of the airport except by contract with the City of Pittsfield.
   (B)   Any tenant having a valid and current contract with the city shall not
have the right of sublease without explicit written consent of the city.
   (C)   All tenants shall provide full time management to manage and promote
their specific type of operating privileges.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to enter upon the premises occupied by any
tenant at reasonable times for the purpose of making inspections to determine
if the conditions and requirements of this chapter are being fully complied
with.
   (E)   All tenants shall maintain adequate accounting records that shall be
open for inspection by the city at any time. All tenants shall furnish the city
with an annual balance sheet and profit and loss statement certified by a
public accountant.
   (F)   All contracts for operating privileges for one year shall begin on May
1 and terminate on April 30.
('74 Code § 2.5-36) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77; Am. Ord. 1217, passed - -99)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.101 DUTIES OF TENANTS; TERMS OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The lessee agrees to operate the premises leased for the use and
benefit of the public.
      (1)   To furnish good, prompt and efficient services adequate to meet all
the demands for service at the airport;
      (2)   To furnish service on a fair, equal and nondiscriminatory basis to
all users thereof; and,
      (3)   To charge fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory prices for each
unit of sale or service, provided the lessee may be allowed to make reasonable
and nondiscriminatory discounts, rebates or similar types of price reductions
to volume purchasers.
   (B)   The lessee, for himself or herself, his or her personal
representatives, successors in interest and assigns, as a part of the
consideration hereof, does hereby covenant and agree:
      (1)   No person shall be excluded from participation in, denied the
benefit of or be otherwise subjected to discrimination in the use of the
facilities on the grounds of race, color or national origin;
      (2)   In the construction of any improvement on, over or under the land
and the furnishing of services thereon, no person shall be excluded from
participation in, denied the benefits of or otherwise be subjected to
discrimination on the grounds of race, color or national origin;
      (3)   The lessee shall use the premises in compliance with all other
requirements imposed by or pursuant to Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations,
Department of Transportation, Subtitle A, Office of the Secretary, Part 21,
Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of
Transportation-Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and as
amended.
   (C)   It is understood by the lessee that no right or privilege has been
granted which would operate to prevent any person, firm or corporation
operating aircraft on the airport from performing any services on its own
aircraft with its own regular employees, including but not limited to
maintenance and repair, that it may choose to perform.
   (D)   It is understood and agreed that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to grant or authorize the granting of an exclusive right.
   (E)   The lessor reserves the right to further develop or improve the
landing area of the airport as it sees fit, regardless of the desire or view of
the lessee, and without interference or hindrance.
    (F)   The lessor reserves the right, but shall not be obligated to the
lessee, to maintain and keep in repair the landing area of the airport and all
publicly owned facilities of the airport, together with the right to direct and
control all activities of the lessee in this regard.
   (G)   During the time of war or national emergency the lessor shall have the
right to lease the landing area or any part thereof to the United States
government for military or naval use and, if the lease is executed, the
provisions of this chapter, insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the lease to the government, shall be suspended.
   (H)   The lessor reserves the right to take any action it considers
necessary to protect the aerial approaches of the airport against obstruction,
together with the right to prevent the lessee from erecting or permitting to be
erected, any building or other structure on or adjacent to the airport which,
in the opinion of the lessor, would limit the usefulness of the airport or
constitute a hazard to aircraft.
   (I)   This lease shall be subordinate to the provisions of any existing or
future agreement between the lessor and the United States relative to the
operation or maintenance of the airport, the execution of which has been or may
be required as a condition precedent to the expenditure of federal funds for
the development of the airport.
('74 Code, § 2.5-39) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.102 TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   If any tenant violates any of the terms of this chapter, is the subject of a
petition of voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, violates
any of the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 or other federal law
relating to the operation of the premises, violates any state laws with regard
to the operation of the airport, the city may terminate any contract with any
tenant, whether or not there is any such provision in the contract.
('74 Code, § 2.5-38) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.103 EVIDENCE OF EXPERIENCE.
   All tenants shall furnish evidence of two years of experience in the field
for which a contract is sought.
('74 Code, § 2.5-31) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.104 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; MINIMUM INVESTMENT; PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tenants shall be required to furnish evidence of financial ability
in the field for which they seek a contract, including, but not limited to, a
profit and loss statement and/or balance sheets prepared by public accountants.
   (B)   All tenants shall show evidence of a minimum investment in aircraft
used for the following services for which they seek operating privileges:
      (1)   Flight training, $ 4,000
      (2)   Aircraft rentals, $4,000
      (3)   Air taxi, $10,000
      (4)   Parts and equipment, $5,000
   (C)   Aircraft referred to in division (B) above does not necessarily have
to be owned, but can be leased, in writing, to the lessee. This applies to
flight training, aircraft rentals and air taxis.
   (D)   All tenants shall employ the following minimum number of personnel of
good moral character who are schooled, trained and competent for their assigned
duties in aircraft use operating privileges. Allowance may be made for
personnel properly qualified to serve in a dual purpose capacity.
      (1)   Flight training: one full time employee.
      (2)   Aircraft rentals: one full time employee.
      (3)   Air taxi: one full time or part time employee.
      (4)   Aircraft maintenance: one full time or one part time employee.
   (E)   All tenants contracting for flight training privileges shall be
required to provide one person properly certificated by the FAA as a flight
instructor to cover the type of training offered.
   (F)   All tenants contracting for air taxi privileges shall provide an FAA
ATCO certificate and a State Charter Air Carrier Certificate.
('74 Code, § 2.5-32) (Ord 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.105 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All tenants contracting for aircraft maintenance service (power
plants, aircraft, avionics and the like) shall be required to provide the
following:
      (1)   An FAA-designated aircraft main- tenance inspector.
      (2)   The minimum number of one certifi- cated mechanic technician who
properly schooled, trained and competent for his or her assigned duties.
      (3)   The minimum investment of $5,000 in machinery, tools and parts.
('74 Code, § 2.5-33) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77)
   (B)   All tenants contracting for any type of operating privileges shall
provide entire maintenance for the interior of any building which they are
leasing, with the exception of the replacement of major facilities such as
heating or cooling units when they are an integral part of the building. If a
tenant occupies only a portion of a building he or she shall be responsible for
maintaining only that portion of the interior of the building which he or she
actually leases.
('74 Code, § 2.5-35) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77)
   (C)   All equipment and facilities maintained by any tenant on the premises
shall, at all times, be kept in a good and workmanlike manner, neat, orderly
and in good workable condition. All personnel employed by any tenant on the
premises must be schooled, trained and competent for his or her assigned duties
and shall be of good moral character.
('74 Code, § 2.5-37) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.106 INSURANCE.
   All tenants contracting for any type of operating privileges shall provide
suitable insurance coverage pertaining to their specific activities and provide
the following:
   (A)   To name the city on policies as an additional insured.
   (B)   To require the insurance company to provide airport ownership within
15 days' minimum notice prior to cancellation or discontinuance of any
insurance coverage.
      (C)   Specific types of coverage applicable to operational activities
with minimum amounts, to include:
      (1)   Worker's Compensation, full coverage.
      (2)   Products liability, $100,000.
      (3)   Hangar keeper's liability, $50,000 per plane; $300,000 total.
      (4)   Passenger seat liability, $75,000; $300,000 total.
('74 Code, § 2.5-34) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.107 CREDITORS.
   Tenants shall pay all accounts to all creditors promptly and according to
the terms given. Failure to do so will be a violation of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 2.5-40) (Ord. 940, passed 4-5-77) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.108   LEASE RENEWAL.
   In order for a tenant to renew its lease, the city shall be provided with a
FAA approved inspection on any aircraft parked in a hangar, and the aircraft be
air worthy.
(Ord. 1217, passed - - 99)
§ 90.109   HANGAR LEASE.
   If a hangar lease is terminated, priority for a new lease shall be given to
residents of the city. The airport manager shall maintain a waiting list of
applicants for a hangar and seniority shall be based on date of application.
(Ord. 1217, passed - -99)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.001 through
90.008, §
90.011, §§
90.020 through
90.024, §§
90.035 through
90.043(A), §§
90.044 through
90.049, §§
90.060 through
90.081 and §§
90.090 through
90.092, unless otherwise indicated, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each day any violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
Each offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$750. Except when otherwise provided by law, all fines and penalties recovered
or received for violations of the aforementioned sections shall be paid to the
city and used for the policing, care, supervision, maintenance and improvements
of the premises.
('74 Code, § 2.5-18) (Ord. 938, passed 2-1-77)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.100 through
90.107, unless otherwise indicated, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each day the violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
Each offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than $750. Except when
otherwise provided by law, all fines and penalties recovered or received for
violation of any provision of the aforementioned sections shall be paid to the
city and be used for the policing, care, supervision, maintenance and
improvements of the premises.
('74 Code, § 2.5-41) (Ord. 1005, passed 7-6-82)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Cruelty
   
91.02   Dangerous and wild animals
   
91.03   Noise
   
91.04   Diseases
   
91.05   Sanitation
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.15   Authority and duties of Animal Warden
Livestock
   
91.25   Livestock
   
91.26   Restrictions
Dogs
   
91.40   Cruelty
   
91.41   Vaccination
   
91.42   Nuisance
   
91.43   Running at large
   
91.44   Female dogs in heat
   
91.45   Vicious and dangerous dogs
   
91.46   Dog or other animal bites
   
91.47   Impoundment
   
91.48   Enforcement
Cats
   
91.60   At-large; impoundment
   
91.61   Disposal
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CRUELTY.
   No person shall treat cruelly any animal in the city in any way. Any person
who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
('74 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DANGEROUS AND WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal
of any kind to run at large within the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals
which are ferae naturae by law may be conducted only upon securing a permit
therefor from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The members of the Police Department or any other person in the city
are authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is necessary
for the protection of any person or property.
('74 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any animal which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
('74 Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DISEASES.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall a diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the Chief of Police or the Health Officer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to secure the disposal of
any diseased animal and treatment of affected premises as to prevent the
communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except in those cases
where the State Veterinarian is empowered to act.
('74 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 SANITATION.
   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
('74 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.15 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF ANIMAL WARDEN.
   The Animal Warden shall have the duty of impounding all dogs running at
large in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The Warden shall be a
Special Police Officer and is authorized to make all necessary arrests in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 5-31) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79)
LIVESTOCK
§ 91.25 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or raise farm animals
including, but not limited to, members of swine (pig), ovine (sheep), bovine
(cattle), caprine (goat), and equine (horse, pony, donkey, zebra) families. Any
such farm animals shall be prohibited within the corporate limits, excepting
such animals within the corporate limits on July 1, 2010; provided, none of
such animals may be replaced.
   (B)   The running at large within the corporate limits of the city and
herding, grazing, or pasturing upon the streets, alleys or other public
property of the city shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The regulation of any other livestock and chickens, ducks, geese,
pigeons, or other poultry or fowl is covered under the city's nuisance
ordinances.
(Ord. 1418, passed 7-20-10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of animals or fowl mentioned in §
91.25 kept in the city shall provide and maintain adequate fencing or an
enclosure for such animals and fowl, and the same shall be so fenced, penned,
or securely fastened and kept at all times on the premises of the owner or
keeper of the same.
   (B)   Any enclosure in which animals or fowl mentioned in §
91.25 are housed, fenced, enclosed, or kept which is unreasonably offensive to
persons residing in the vicinity of the same or which constitutes a hazard to
the health of the persons residing nearby is declared to be a nuisance.
('74 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 1123, passed 8-17-93)
Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.40 CRUELTY.
   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve or overwork or
otherwise abuse any dog in the city in any way. Any person who inhumanely
beats, underfeeds, overloads, abandons or otherwise abuses any animal shall be
guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 VACCINATION.
   No dog over the age of four months shall be permitted to be or remain in the
city without having been inoculated against rabies. It shall be the duty of the
owner or persons having custody of any dog within the corporate limits of the
city to have said dog vaccinated at least once each year, unless a three-year
vaccination is administered to the dog.
('74 Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 NUISANCE.
   Any dog found in the city not bearing a current county rabies dog tag, or
any vicious or dangerous dog, or dog sick or liable to communicate rabies or
other contagious or infectious disease is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
shall be impounded.
('74 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 873, passed 4-24-73; Am. Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79; Am.
Ord. 990, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
§ 91.43 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Any person owning or having custody of a dog in the city shall keep
said dog either:
      (1)   Restrained on a leash; or
      (2)   In his place of abode; or
      (3)   In a suitable doghouse; or
      (4)   On that property owned or occupied by that said owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog or person having custody
of a dog, to permit or allow said dog to run at large. Any owner of a dog or
person having custody of a dog that permits or allows said dog to run at large
shall be guilty of violating this chapter and shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having charge of a dog
within the city to fail to promptly remove any defecation passed and deposited
by such dog at any place within the city, other than on property owned by or
under the control of such person.
(‘74 Code, § 5-20) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79; Am.
Ord. 990, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 1536, passed 2-
17-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   No female dogs in rut or in heat shall be permitted to run at large at any
time. All female dogs in heat shall be confined in an enclosed area of such
design and structure necessary to prevent any male dog from entering such
enclosure.
('74 Code, § 5-22) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.  An individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed,
or unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
      ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
enclosure. Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
      FOUND TO BE A VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   The Administrator, Animal Control Warden, or law enforcement
officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the
dog is a vicious dog as defined in this section and based on that finding, the
Administrator or Animal Control Warden has declared in writing that the dog is
a vicious dog; or
         (b)   The Circuit Court or the Administrative Review Officer has found
the dog to be a vicious dog as defined in this section and has entered an order
based on that finding.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   1.   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property; or
            2.   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; or
            3.   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristics and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment; or
            4.   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation; or
            5.   Any individual dog which has been found to be a “dangerous
dog” upon three separate occasions.
         (b)   No dog shall be deemed vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
   (B)   All dogs found to be vicious dogs shall be subject to enclosure.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or any person having custody of any
dangerous or vicious dog to keep the same safely and securely muzzled.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
including an Administrative Review Court, providing that the dog is securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of 300 pounds and
not exceeding three feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog. Any dog which has been found to
be a vicious dog and which is not confined to an enclosure, shall be impounded
by the Administrator, Animal Control Warden, or law enforcement authority
having jurisdiction in such area and, after seven working days, shall be turned
over to a licensed veterinarian for humane destruction. If the owner of the dog
has not appealed the impoundment order to the Circuit Court of Pike County,
Illinois, within seven working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog
found to be a vicious dog shall not be released until the Administrator or the
Animal Control Warden approves the enclosure as defined in this section.
   (E)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
   (F)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this subsection,
each dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with the
Illinois Small Animals Control Warden. In the case of a sentry or guard dog,
the owner shall keep the Animal Control Warden advised of the location where
such dog will be stationed. The Animal Control Warden shall provide Police and
Fire Departments with a categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall
promptly notify such departments of any address changes reported to him.
('74 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79; Am.
Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   When the Administrator or Animal Control Warden receives information
that any person has been bitten by a dog or other animal, the Administrator,
Animal Control Warden, as an authorized representative, shall have such dog or
cat confined under the observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of
ten days. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog or
other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing, to the Administrator
within 24 hours after the dog is presented for examination, giving the owner’s
name, mailing address, the date of confinement, the breed, description, age and
sex of such dog or other animal, on appropriate forms. When evidence is
presented that such dog or animal was inoculated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of its owner, or in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten days as long
as the Administrator, or other licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement
satisfactory. At the end of the confinement period, the Administrator or
another licensed veterinarian shall examine such dog or other animal.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Administrator or
Animal Control Warden immediately. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or
other animal to euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog
or animal known to have bitten another person, until the Administrator releases
it. If such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to
the owner of such dog or other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The
affidavit or testimony of the Administrator, or his authorized representative,
delivering or mailing such instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner
of such dog or other animal was notified of his responsibilities. Any expense
incurred in the handling of any dog or other animal under this section shall be
borne by the owner.
('74 Code, § 5-23) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79; Am.
Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animal Warden. The Animal Warden shall have the duty of impounding all
dogs running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Redemption of impounded animals. The owner of any dog impounded
pursuant to this chapter may redeem the dog by paying all the costs, charges
and penalties assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the time of making the
redemption and when the charges are paid to the Animal Warden. The fee for
taking up a dog will be fixed by the Animal Warden from time to time and as
approved by the County Board.
   (C)   Disposition of unredeemed dogs. Any impounded dog not redeemed by the
owner thereof within five days, the Animal Warden shall have the authority to
choose a disposition of the dog, i.e., put up for adoption or destroy.
('74 Code, §§ 5-32, 5-33 and 5-34) (Ord. 745, passed 3-16-65; Am. Ord. 969,
passed 9-18-79; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
§ 91.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Animal Warden.  The Animal Warden shall be a special police officer
and is authorized to make all necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions
of this chapter. Upon issuance of a citation, the Animal Warden shall forward a
copy of the citation to the Code Administrator for prosecution of the citation.
   (B)   Duty of the city police and/or County Sheriff. City police and/or the
County Sheriff are authorized to make all necessary arrests in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Duty of Code Administrator.  It shall be the duty of the Code
Administrator to prosecute violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
CATS
§ 91.60 AT-LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any cat found to wander from place to place, to rove at large, is lost or
otherwise deemed a stray may be impounded. Any cat that has bitten a person
other than the owner, is believed to be a source of rabies or other infectious
disease, is otherwise diseased or presents a hazard to public health is subject
to being impounded.
(Ord. 1085, passed 3-7-90)
§ 91.61 DISPOSAL.
   Any cat impounded as provided in §
91.60 may, to the extent permitted by the laws or regulations of this state and
of the local Public Health Department, be redeemed by the other or keeper of
the cat upon payment to the City Clerk of the fee as shall be fixed by the City
Council from time to time for the care and feeding of the cat for each day or
part of a day it has been impounded. Any cat impounded as provided in §
91.60, not redeemed within seven days after being impounded, may be disposed of
in a manner consistent with the laws of this state.
(Ord. 1085, passed 3-7-90)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each
offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any terms of §§
91.40 through
91.48 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
('74 Code, § 5-24) (Ord. 969, passed 9-18-79; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 6-4-02)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
   
92.02   Sprinkler systems
Fire Department
   
92.10   Volunteer Fire Department established
   
92.11   Full time firefighter; certification required
   
92.12   False alarms
Cross-reference:
   Burning-related nuisances, see §§
95.15 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised comprehensive Illinois Fire Prevention Code, three copies of
which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
('74 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 799, passed 6-4-68)
§ 92.02 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   No sprinkler system hereafter shall be installed in any building which
receives its water supply from the city until plans for the system have been
submitted to and approved by the City Council. The Council's approval shall be
in writing or stamped on the plans before any installation shall begin by any
contractor, owner, builder, distributor or tenant.
('74 Code, § 9-3) (Ord. 883, passed 10-2-73)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.10 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Volunteer Fire Department for the city,
which shall consist of a Chief and subordinate officers and personnel as the
city may prescribe.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Fire Chief, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. The
Fire Chief shall be a member in good standing of the Volunteer Fire Department.
The current members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall present the name of
one of its members to the Mayor for his consideration prior to the appointment
of the Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Chief shall be the executive head of the Fire Department.
   (D)   The department shall promulgate its own bylaws, but the bylaws shall
be subject to approval by the City Council.
   (E)   The department shall perform the duties as may be prescribed from time
to time by ordinance.
   (F)   The members of the department shall receive compensation as the
Council shall prescribe.
('74 Code, § 9-2) (Am. Ord. 1235, passed 4-4-00)
§ 92.11 FULL TIME FIREFIGHTER; CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to participate in programs provided by the
Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (B)   Before an individual may begin regular full time employment as a
firefighter he or she shall have been certified by the Illinois State Fire
Marshal as a Firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved
training course as provided in the act.
   (C)   The Firefighter II certification shall be completed by the trainee
within 24 months. Failure of any trainee to complete the basic training and
certification within the required period will render that individual and local
governmental agency ineligible for reimbursement funding for basic training for
that individual in the fiscal year.
   (D)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners hereby are instructed and
directed to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules, the Manual of
Rules of the City Fire Department and rules of the Board in order to require
any person appointed to the Department shall not become a regular member of it
unless and until he or she complete, pursuant to the Illinois Fire Protection
and Training Act, the approved initial employment.
('74 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. 1066, passed 4-19-88)
§ 92.12 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FALSE FIRE ALARM. An alarm signal which indicates the existence of an
emergency situation, when in fact no such emergency exists, and shall include
any alarm signal generated by any fire protection system by whatever means, but
shall not include alarms resulting from any of the following causes:
         (a)   Actual fire or smoke verified by a Pittsfield Fire Department
Officer;
         (b)   Earthquake, tornado, flooding, lightning, causing or threatened
damage to the premises;
         (c)   Telephone or electrical malfunction verified in writing by the
utility service; or
         (d)   Malicious activation by any persons by any means.
      FIRE ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure, or
facility or portion thereof wherein a fire protection system is maintained.
      FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM. Any fire alarm device or system automatic direct
dialer, or fire extinguishing device or system, or their combination, which is
designed and installed for detecting, controlling, or extinguishing a fire, or
otherwise alerting occupants or the Fire Department, or both, that a fire has
occurred.
      KEY HOLDER. A person authorized by the fire alarm user to have access to
the protected premises and fire protection system by use of a key or
combination to provide emergency entrance to the premises, to silence alarms,
and notify proper fire protection system maintenance personnel to correct
system malfunctions.
      NUISANCE ALARMS. An alarm caused by malfunction, lack of proper
maintenance, or repeated false alarms as follows:
         (a)   Smoke created by cooking;
         (b)   Malicious activation by any person by any means;
         (c)   Trouble alarms for the same or unknown reason;
         (d)   Systems set off during maintenance;
         (e)   Systems set off by workers for any reason; or
         (f)   Any other repeated nuisance alarm by any means.
      TROUBLE ALARM. A signal initiated by the fire alarm system or device
indicative of a fault in a monitored circuit or component.
   (B)   False alarm penalties.  
      (1)   No fire alarm user protected by an alarm system shall permit,
allow, or suffer the alarm system to communicate or transmit a false fire, or
nuisance alarm.
      (2)   For the first false fire or nuisance alarm within a 30 day period,
a letter of first warning shall be forwarded to the fire alarm user with
suggestions for avoidance of false or nuisance alarms. For the second false
fire or nuisance alarm in the 30 day period, a letter of second warning shall
be forwarded indicating the second violation, and a warning of impending fines
for the third offense. For the third false fire or nuisance alarm in a 30 day
period, the fire alarm user of the protected premises shall pay a service
charge of $200. Subsequent false fire or nuisance alarms in the same 30 day
period shall result in the basic service charge of $200 plus an additional $50
for each false fire or nuisance alarm thereafter.
      (3)   Each chargeable false fire or nuisance alarm is considered a
separate offence and will be invoiced separately. Each and every violation of
this section is considered a petty offense, punishable by the service charges
previously set forth.
      (4)   In the event a violator fails to pay the assessment(s), it will
result in disconnection of the violator's utility service.
   (C)   Testing of fire alarm signaling systems.
      (1)   No person shall conduct any test or demonstration of a fire alarm
signaling system without first contacting the appropriate fire dispatch center
and fire alarm signaling monitoring company. The fire dispatch center and fire
alarm signaling monitoring company shall also be contacted when the fire alarm
test or demonstration is completed.
      (2)   A violation of this section shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   First offense: written warning, no fine with warning of
impending fine on second offense.
         (b)   Second offense: $200 service charge.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses: basic service charge of $200 plus an
additional $50 for each offense thereafter.
   (D)   Key holders. It shall be the responsibility of the fire alarm user to
provide the alarm monitor/ dispatch system with a list of three names/key
holders and their phone numbers to contact in the event of an alarm and this
list shall be verified or updated every six months and each time there is a
change of key holder. The dispatch center should be provided with a site phone
extension to contact staff on site for updates regarding the facilities’
current alarm situation.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   New fire alarm installations, or major upgrades, shall be granted a
30 day grace period from false fire or nuisance alarm assessments.
      (2)   The Pittsfield Fire Chief shall be empowered to review the false or
nuisance alarm complaint and remove the complaint for reasonable cause.
   (F)   In force. The responsibility for complying with this section shall be
the duty of both the user of the fire alarm system and the owner of the fire
alarm system. Both parties are subject to noncompliance violation penalties as
set forth by divisions (B) and (C).
(Ord. 1491, passed 3-19-13)
CHAPTER 93: RESERVOIR
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Dam and lake named
   
93.002   Definitions
   
93.003   Authority of city
   
93.004   Permit required for buildings and structures
   
93.005   Pollution of water
   
93.006   Animals on premises
   
93.007   Protected birds and wildlife
   
93.008   Washing
   
93.009   Firearms
   
93.010   Ice cutting
   
93.011   Fireworks
   
93.012   Injury to property
   
93.013   Business establishments
   
93.014   Peddling and begging
   
93.015   Advertising
   
93.016   Loudspeakers
   
93.017   Aircraft
   
93.018   Restricted areas
   
93.019   Traffic signs and signals
   
93.020   Motor vehicle speed
   
93.021   Load limits
   
93.022   Unattended children at drop inlet
   
93.023   Disorderly conduct
   
93.024   Litter
   
93.025   Breach of peace
   
93.026   Intoxication
   
93.027   Hindering employees
   
93.028   Bribery
   
93.029   Unsanitary conditions
   
93.030   Civil liability
   
93.031   Swimming; bathing; wading
   
93.032   Camping
   
93.033   Ice skating
   
93.034   Fires
Boating
   
93.045   Maximum horsepower
   
93.046   Mufflers; exhaust; gas
   
93.047   Noise
   
93.048   Speed; racing
   
93.049   Skiing
   
93.050   Life preservers
   
93.051   Lights
   
93.052   Renting; carrying passengers for hire
   
93.053   Steering; sailing
   
93.054   Houseboats
   
93.055   Toilet facilities
   
93.056   Unsanitary conditions
   
93.057   City's authority to restrict
   
93.058   Abandoned boats
   
93.059   Overladen boats
   
93.060   Night sailing
   
93.061   Driver's license
   
93.062   Ice boats
Fishing
   
93.070   State personnel exempt
   
93.071   State license required
   
93.072   Prohibited fishing methods
   
93.073   Maximum number of poles
   
93.074   Unattended tackle
   
93.075   Suspension of privileges
   
93.076   Protection against pollution
   
93.077   Throwing back fish
Model Airplanes
   
93.080   Model airplanes
Lake Police Officers
   
93.090   Appointment; authority
   
93.091   Oath; bond
   
93.092   Uniforms and badges
   
93.093   Special officers
   
93.094   Powers and duties
   
93.095   Neglect of duty
   
93.096   Conduct of officers
   
93.097   Records
   
93.098   Assisting officers
   
93.099   Resisting officers
   
93.100   Impersonating officers
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DAM AND LAKE NAMED.
   The dam and lake constructed by the city in Section 16, Township 5 South of
the base line, Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Pike County,
Illinois, is hereby named Troutner Dam and the lake created by the dam is
hereby named “Lake Pittsfield.”
('74 Code, § 23-2) (Ord. 686, passed 10-3-61)
§ 93.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRAFT. Any raft not permanently attached to the shore.
   DISTANCE. The shortest horizontal distance from the point designated,
between the points designated or measured at right angles to the line
designated.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The entire area of land and water that drains into the
reservoir or into Big Blue Creek, Chamberlain Branch of any tributary or other
stream above the public water supply dams.
   DROP INLET. That part of a dam by which water flows from or near the surface
of the reservoir into a vertical shaft and, by means of a conduit below and
under the dam, into a water downstream from the dam.
   HIGH WATER LINE. The contour known as 604.3 feet, referred to as the United
States Government elevations, as obtained from the bench mark established by
the city.
   INTAKE. The place where the water supply for the city is taken from the
reservoir.
   PREMISES. Impounded areas and adjacent areas of land owned by the city in
Sections 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 15 and 16 of Township 5 South of the base line, Range 3
West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, within the county.
   RESERVOIR. The artificial lake and water impounded therein by means of the
public water supply dams constructed across the valley of Big Blue Creek in the
northwest quarter of Section 16, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of this county
and Chamberlain Branch in the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 5 South,
Range 3 West of this county and by any other structure constructed within the
limits of the drainage area, which are used or for use as a public water supply
for the city.
   SHORELINE. The extended point where the plane of the surface of the waters
of the reservoir touches the land.
   WATERCOURSE. Any stream, natural or artificial channel, spring or depression
of any kind in which water flows continuously or intermittently over any part
of the drainage area, directly or indirectly, into any part of the reservoir.
('74 Code, 23-1) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.003 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to or be construed to prevent or
penalize anything done or caused to be done by the city in constructing,
operating, improving, repairing, maintaining, patrolling, policing, protecting
or caring for the reservoir, the aquatic life therein, the shores thereof, the
bird and natural life thereon or any part of the waterworks system of the city.
('74 Code, § 23-3) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.004 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   No building or other structure, including any dock, wharf, boathouse or
anchored or stationary raft shall be constructed, altered or maintained unless
a written permit therefor, based upon a written application setting forth the
location, specification and intended use thereof is granted by the city.
('74 Code, § 23-4) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.005 POLLUTION OF WATER.
   No person shall, in any part of the drainage area, place, throw, discharge
or cause to be discharged any sewage, garbage, decayed or fermented fruit or
vegetables, offal, dead body, manure, polluted, filthy, decaying, fermenting,
putrescible or oily matter or liquid or industrial waste into or so as to reach
any natural or artificial watercourse or open or covered sewer, ditch, tile or
drain flowing directly or indirectly, continuously or intermittently, into and
so as to pollute or tend to pollute the reservoir or other waters from which
the city obtains a water supply.
('74 Code, § 23-5) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.006 ANIMALS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Livestock and poultry.
      (1)   No person shall cause or permit any domestic livestock or poultry
to run at large on the premises. Any livestock or poultry found at large may be
taken up by the city and sold to pay the expense of taking up, keeping,
advertising and selling the impounded livestock or poultry, and all damage
caused to the city or its property by the livestock or poultry.
      (2)   No animal or poultry will be allowed to stand, wallow, wade or swim
or be washed or watered in the reservoir.
      (3)   No person shall bring, drive or lead any domestic livestock on the
premises, except in lawful use of the public highway and except horses and
draft animals while engaged in work or being ridden on the portions designated
for riding or driving.
      (4)   No person shall cause or permit any horse or other animal to stand
in any street, road or parkway unless securely hitched or in the charge of some
competent person.
('74 Code, 23-6) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
   (B)   Cats and dogs.
      (1)   No vicious or dangerous dog shall be permitted on the premises.
      (2)   Any dog or cat found running at large may be taken up by the city
and, if not promptly called for, may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by
the city, all without liability on the part of any officer performing the duty
or the city.
('74 Code, § 23-7) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 93.007 PROTECTED BIRDS AND WILDLIFE.
   No person shall trap, catch, kill or wound or attempt to trap, catch, kill
or wound any bird or animal or take any bird egg or molest or rob any next of
any bird or animal or cruelly treat any bird or animal on the premises, except
by special license issued by the city.
('74 Code, § 23-9) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 895, passed 6-4-74)
§ 93.008 WASHING.
   No clothing, bedding, carpet, vehicle, receptacle, utensil or article that
tends to pollute the water shall be washed in the reservoir.
('74 Code, § 23-8) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.009 FIREARMS.
   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm of any description on the
premises except the police officers of the city in performance of their duties.
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent police officers or other authorized
persons from using any firearm target range designated as such by the City
Council. The city may license or authorize any person to use firearms, traps,
or other means to destroy any predatory or otherwise undesirable animal, bird
or aquatic life.
('74 Code, § 23-10) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.010 ICE CUTTING.
   No ice cutting shall be permitted in or upon the waters or ice of the
reservoir, except fishing holes not more than 12 inches in diameter.
('74 Code, § 23-11) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.011 FIREWORKS.
   No fireworks shall be lighted or set off on the premises except under the
supervision of or by a special permit from the city.
('74 Code, § 23-12) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.012 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully, maliciously or negligently cut, break,
climb on, carry away, conceal, transfer, tamper with, mark upon or in any way
injure, damage or deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, grass, statute, bust,
lamp post, hydrant, regulating device, transformer, meter, wire, wiring, pole,
curbstone, coping, flagstone, fence, wall, bridge, balustrade, railing, bench,
building or other structure of any kind, or take down, alter, mar, move, injure
or destroy any sign, trail marker, placard, notice, post, pile or buoy posted
or placed by the city or authorized to be posted or placed by the city.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle, boat or craft in a manner to cause
it to collide with, run against, strike or cause to strike, injure or deface or
damage any such property.
   (C)   No person shall open any fire hydrant of the city except a duly
authorized firefighter or agent of the city.
('74 Code, § 23-13) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.013 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Unless duly authorized in writing by the city, no person shall
maintain or operate any store or stand for the sale of merchandise. Any license
issued therefor by the city shall be kept conspicuously posted in the place of
business or establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, association or other
entity to conduct any activity of any nature or description where any price,
donation, or the tendering of anything of value is a condition of participation
or admission or where the purpose of the conduct or activity is either
partially or wholly commercial without first having secured a permit therefor.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit any bona fide
organization which requires the payment of dues as a condition of membership or
for advancing costs of a tournament, from conducting any otherwise permissible
activity on the premises, if there is no additional assessment or donation or
tendering of any thing of value conditioned on participation or admission.
   (D)   Applications for licenses or permits shall be made to the City Clerk
and referred by the Clerk to the City Council.
   (E)   No license or permit shall be issued unless and until the Council
deems its issuance to be in the best interest of the city and promotes the
general welfare of the community, after the applicant has had an opportunity to
be heard.
('74 Code, § 23-14) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 1023, passed 1-17-84;
Am. Ord. 1048, passed 2-18-86)
§ 93.014 PEDDLING AND BEGGING.
   No person shall beg, solicit alms or do anything pertaining to soliciting,
peddling or hawking.
('74 Code, § 23-15) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.015 ADVERTISING.
   The erection or maintenance of any sign, bill or poster or the posting or
placing of any advertising poster, placard or card or the distributing of any
advertising matter by handbills or otherwise, except signs as posted by the
city, is prohibited on the premises.
('74 Code, § 23-16) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.016 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No person shall use any loudspeaker or other device for amplifying his or
her speaking voice on the premises, except police officers in the performance
of their duties, without first securing from the Mayor a permit therefor.
('74 Code, § 23-17) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.017 AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall make an ascent in any balloon, airplane or any other similar
device or make any descent in any airplane, balloon or any other flying device
or parachute in the premises without a written permit therefor from the city.
('74 Code, § 23-18) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.018 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall go upon any portion of the premises where, by sign or notice
posted or authorized to be posted by the city, persons are prohibited from
going.
('74 Code, § 23-19) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.019 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   All persons shall obey all official signs, traffic signals and police
officers of the city. The display of unauthorized signs and signals is
prohibited.
('74 Code, § 23-20) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.020 MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon any boulevard, road,
driveway or parkway on the premises at a speed greater than is reasonable and
proper, having regard for the traffic and the use of the way and so as not to
endanger the life, limb or injury the property of any person.
   (B)   The city may, from time to time, designate the maximum rate of speed
on all boulevards, roads and parkways based on the location, nature and amount
of traffic thereon and shall erect suitable signs indicating the maximum rates
of speed.
   (C)   If the rate of speed of any motor vehicle operating on any boulevard,
road or parkway shall exceed the rate of speed designated for the location, the
rate of speed shall be prima facie evidence the person operating the motor
vehicle was running at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper,
having regard for the traffic and use of the highway.
('74 Code, § 23-21) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.021 LOAD LIMITS.
   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated, whether loaded or
not, upon any boulevard, road, driveway or parkway when the gross weight
exceeds 10,000 pounds.
('74 Code, § 23-22) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 895, passed 6-4-74)
§ 93.022 UNATTENDED CHILDREN AT DROP INLET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has the supervision of any child
under the age of ten years to knowingly permit the child to be within 15 feet
of the drop inlet of any dam structure, unless the child shall be accompanied
by and in physical contact with a person of the age of 16 years or more of age.
For the purposes of this section, any person who should have known the child
would be within 15 feet of the drop inlet is charged with that knowledge.
('74 Code, § 23-23) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.023 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall commit in public any indecent, lewd or filthy act or use any
threatening or obscene language, or make any indecent gesture or move- ment, or
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or solicit, pander or sell or
offer to sell, give away or have in his possession or display or exhibit in
public, with or without any attempt to sell or give away, any obscene or
indecent book, pamphlet, paper, drawing, lithograph, engraving, picture,
photograph, model, cast, instrument or any article for indecent or immoral use
on the premises.
('74 Code, § 23-24) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.024 LITTER.
   Any person picnicking, camping or making other use of the premises shall
keep the premises neat and clean, pick up and remove in a sanitary manner all
paper, garbage, rubbish and debris and, before leaving the premises, shall put
out any fire he or she has made.
('74 Code, § 23-48) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.025 BREACH OF PEACE.
   No person shall make, aid, countenance or assist in making any improper
noise, racket, disturbance, breach of the peace or anything tending to be a
breach of the peace on the premises or be guilty of any disorderly or offensive
conduct or collect or assemble any body or group of persons for any unlawful
purpose or for the annoyance or disturbance of any other person or for the
damage or destruction of property in the city or of any other person on the
premises.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.026 INTOXICATION.
   No intoxicated person shall enter or remain in or upon the premises.
('74 Code, § 23-28) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.027 HINDERING EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall interfere with or in any manner hinder any employee or agent
of the city while engaged in any work or the improvement, care or supervision
of any portion of the premises.
('74 Code, § 23-29) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.028 BRIBERY.
   (A)   No person shall corruptly, whether directly or indirectly, give, offer
or promise to give any money or other bribe, present, reward, promise,
contract, obligation or security for the payment of any money, present, reward
or any other thing of value to any officer, agent, employee or representative
of the city who is in charge of, controlling, supervising, governing or
inspecting the premises or any part thereof or work thereon, either before or
after his or her selection, appointment or qualifying for the purpose of
influencing his or her act, vote, opinion, decision or judgement on any matter,
question, cause or proceeding which may be pending or may come or be brought
before him or her in an official or other capacity for the city.
   (B)   No person shall cause any officer, agent, employee or representative
of the city to execute or perform any power vested in him or her or any duty
required of him with partiality of favor, otherwise than provided by law, or as
a consideration for some act done or about to be done contrary to the duty of
the officer, agent, employee or representative.
('74 Code, § 23-30) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.029 UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter whereby any unsanitary
condition is created is hereby declared a public nuisance.
('74 Code, § 23-31) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.030 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter whereby any unsanitary
condition is created is hereby declared a public nuisance.
('74 Code, § 23-32) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.031 SWIMMING; BATHING; WADING.
   Swimming, bathing and wading are prohibited.
('74 Code, § 23-44) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.032 CAMPING.
   (A)   Camping shall be open to the public in the designated camping areas at
Lake Pittsfield at a cost as shall be determined from time to time by the City
Council. The day shall be a 24-hour period, beginning at 2:00 p.m. Boy Scouts,
Girl Scouts, and supervised church groups shall be exempt from this charge and
may camp anywhere at the premises.
   (B)   An agent of the city shall collect the camping fees and electrical
fees, for which he or she will be paid per contract, commencing April 1 and
ending October 1 of each year.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to set camping fees and
electrical fees by resolution.
('74 Code, § 23-45) (Ord. 849, passed 6-22-71; Am. Ord. 896, passed 6-4-74; Am.
Ord. 923, passed 7-6-76; Am. Ord. 1265, passed 6-4-02)
§ 93.033 ICE SKATING.
   No person shall ice skate on the reservoir except in areas prescribed
therefor by the city.
('74 Code, § 23-46) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.034 FIRES.
   No fire shall be lighted or used except at the places designated therefor by
the city for that purpose.
('74 Code, § 23-47) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
BOATING
§ 93.045 MAXIMUM HORSEPOWER.
   (A)   All boats or watercraft with or without internal combustion engines
may be operated on the city reservoir (Pittsfield Lake). No person shall
operate a boat faster than slow-no-wake on the city reservoir (Pittsfield
Lake). Slow-no-wake means the speed at which a boat moves as slowly as possible
while still maintaining steerage control.
   (B)   Fishing tournaments may be allowed on the city reservoir. No more than
two fishing tournaments will be permitted per month. Tournament scheduling
shall be through the City Clerk’s office in order of application. No more than
25 boats will be allowed for tournament fishing. No fish will be taken from the
lake during tournaments. Tournament directors will ensure compliance with this
section.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to set boat launch fees by
resolution.
   (D)   The City of Pittsfield shall place and maintain a synopsis of the
ordinance at all public access points on Pittsfield Lake.
   (E)   Any person violating eh provisions of this section shall be subject to
a fine of $150 and loss of boating privileges on Pittsfield Lake.
(‘74 Code, § 23-55) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 895, passed 6-4-74; Am.
Ord. 1266, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 1268, passed 6-18-02; Am. Ord. 1543, passed
6-2-15; Am. Ord. 1576, passed 3-21-17)
§ 93.046 MUFFLERS; EXHAUST; GAS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any boat or craft
equipped with a motor or internal combustion engine, regardless of whether the
motor or engine is temporarily or permanently attached to the boat or craft, on
any of the waters of the reservoir unless the motor or engine is equipped with
an efficient muffler, in good working order and constant operation so as to
prevent excessive noise and annoying smoke.
   (B)   No outboard motor or internal combustion engine shall be deemed
equipped with an efficient muffler unless the exhaust gases are discharged
under the water or are so muffled as not to be noisier or more annoying than an
internal combustion engine of like power equipped with an underwater exhaust.
   (C)   No inboard motor or internal combustion engine shall be deemed
equipped with an efficient muffler unless the exhaust gases are condensed and
silenced by the continuous circulation of water through the exhaust pipe, or
are muffled so as not to be noisier or more annoying than when condensed and
silenced by water circulating through the exhaust pipe of an internal
combustion engine of like power.
   (D)   No person shall use on any boat or craft on the waters of the
reservoir a muffler cutout or any device that operates to discharge exhaust
gases of any motor or engine without the gases passing through an efficient
muffler.
('74 Code, § 23-56) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.047 NOISE.
   No boat or craft shall be used or operated, nor shall any horn or sound
device be sounded to create a nuisance or disturb the peace or quiet of the
premises.
('74 Code, § 23-57) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.048 SPEED; RACING.
   (A)   No person shall operate any boat or craft at a greater speed than at
the rate of five miles per hour.
   (B)   No boat or craft propelled by an engine or motor may be used in racing
or practicing therefor.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as permitting any boat or
craft to be operated at a speed greater than is safe and prudent under the
circum- stance and the operator of the boat or craft shall observe all signs
and other regulations placed by the city on or near the reservoir.
('74 Code, § 23-58) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.049 SKIING.
   Water skiing in the reservoir is prohibited.
('74 Code, § 23-59) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.050 LIFE PRESERVERS.
   No boat or craft of any kind or character shall be operated on the reservoir
unless it carries for each occupant an adequate, individual life preserver, in
good condition, especially designed for that purpose, approved by the United
States Coast Guard and in serviceable condition.
('74 Code, § 23-60) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.051 LIGHTS.
   (A)   No boat or craft of any kind shall be used, propelled or operated
between the hours of sunset and sunrise unless the boat or craft plainly
displays an adequate light which can be clearly observed from any quarter by an
approaching boat.
   (B)   No boat or craft that may be operated or propelled by means of any
motor or engine which may be temporarily or permanently attached thereto may be
operated between the hours of sunset and sunrise, unless it plainly displays a
bright white light in the aft (rear) part of the boat or craft visible from all
quarters and twin lights or a combined lantern in the forepart (forward) of the
boat or craft showing a green light to the starboard (right) and a red light to
the port side (left) of the craft or boat. Each colored light shall be shielded
so as not to be visible from across the beam of the boat.
   (C)   No boat or craft shall be anchored offshore between sunset and sunrise
unless it displays an adequate light clearly visible from any quarter by any
approaching boat.
('74 Code, § 23-61) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.052 RENTING; CARRYING PASSENGERS FOR HIRE.
   (A)   The business of renting boats for hire or carrying passengers for hire
on the reservoir is prohibited except as may be authorized by special
concession granted by the city, but the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to all boats and craft permitted by special concession.
   (B)   All concession boats or craft shall be inspected from time to time
during their period of operation on the reservoir. Any concession boat or craft
failing to have adequate life preservers in place when licensed or otherwise
failing to pass inspection shall be made to comply with this subchapter before
further operation.
   (C)   No individual operator or employee of anyone operating any boat
carrying passengers for hire shall be permitted to operate a concession craft
or boat unless he or she is physically fit for the duty, has adequate knowledge
of the boat mechanism and is familiar with this subchapter and other
ordinances, rules and regulations for the operation of boats on the reservoir
and with the commonly approved safety regulations and measures to be used in
case of accident or emergency, including instruction of passengers in the use
of safety equipment and their conduct in case of emergency.
   (D)   Each operator or employee shall, at all times, be subject to
examination and approval by the city as to his or her qualifications and any
determination by the city as to those qualifications shall be conclusive.
('74 Code, § 23-62) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.053 STEERING; SAILING.
   The following steering and sailing rules shall govern the use and operation
of boats on the reservoir:
   (A)   When two sailboats are approaching one another so as to involve risk
of collision, one of them shall keep out of the way of the other, as follows:
      (1)   A boat which is running free shall keep out of the way of a boat
which is close-hauled;
      (2)   A boat which is close-hauled on the port (left) tack shall keep out
of the way of a boat which is close-hauled on the starboard (right) tack;
      (3)   When both are running free with the wind on different sides, the
boat which has the wind on the port side (left) shall keep out of the way of
the other.
      (4)   When both are running free with the wind on the same side, the boat
which is windward shall keep out of the way of the boat or craft which is to
leeward.
   (B)   When two motor- or engine-driven boats are meeting end on, or nearly
end on, so as to involve risk of collision, each shall alter course to
starboard (right) so each shall pass on the port side (left) of the other.
   (C)   When two motor- or engine-driven boats are crossing so as to involve
risk of collision, the boat which has the other on its starboard (right) side
shall keep out of the way of the other.
   (D)   When a motor- or engine-driven boat and a sailboat are proceeding in
the directions as to involve risk of collision, the motor- or engine-driven
boat shall keep out of the way of the sailboat.
   (E)   The meeting or crossing of two boats propelled by oars or muscular
power shall be governed in like manner as two motorboats under divisions (B)
and (C) above.
   (F)   When a sailboat or motor- or engine-driven boat meets, crosses the
course of or overtakes a boat propelled by oars or muscular power, the sail,
motor- or engine-driven boat shall keep out of the way of the other.
   (G)   Where, by any of the rules herein prescribed, one of two boats shall
keep out of the way, the other shall keep its course and speed.
   (H)   Every motor- or engine-driven boat which is directed by these rules to
keep out of the way of another boat, on approaching it, if necessary, shall
slacken its speed, stop or reverse.
   (I)   Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, every boat or craft
overtaking another shall keep out of the way of the overtaken boat or craft.
   (J)   In obeying and construing these rules, due regard shall be had to all
dangers of navigation and collision and to any special circumstances which may
render a departure from these rules necessary in order to avoid immediate
danger.
   (K)   Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any boat or craft or the owner
or operator thereof from the consequences of any neglect to keep a proper
lookout or of a neglect of any precaution which may be required by the exercise
of due care and caution or by the special circumstances of the case.
   (L)   No boat or craft shall collide with, run against, strike, injure,
deface or damage any buoy, stake, sign, piling or other structure installed by
the city or with the city's consent, or be anchored or moored so as to obstruct
the view of any buoy or navigation sign or signal.
('74 Code, § 23-63) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.054 HOUSEBOATS.
   No boat or craft commonly known as a houseboat, nor any craft on which the
occupants have sleeping accommodations or remain more than a few hours shall be
permitted on the reservoir.
('74 Code, § 23-64) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.055 TOILET FACILITIES.
   No boat or craft used or operated on the reservoir shall be equipped with
toilet facilities without a special written permit from the city therefor and
the maintenance and operation of special equipment for the storage of all
wastes and the disposal thereof onshore, all in a manner approved by the city.
('74 Code, § 23-65) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.056 UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   Persons using or operating any boat or craft on the waters of the reservoir
shall not create any unsanitary condition in or about the water and shall not
pollute the water by the discharge, in any material amount, of oil or other
polluting liquid or solid tending to make the water unwholesome or unfit for
water supply purposes or injurious to the aquatic life of the reservoir.
('74 Code, § 23-66) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.057 CITY'S AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT.
   The city, at all times, shall have the power and authority to prohibit,
restrict or otherwise limit or regulate the keeping, maintenance or operation
of any or all boats and craft on the water of the reservoir should it become
necessary to do so in the interest of the public health or safety or for the
protection or improvement of the reservoir or for any other cause.
('74 Code, § 23-68) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.058 ABANDONED BOATS.
   (A)   Any boat or craft found abandoned or adrift in the reservoir shall be
taken up by the city and the city shall have a lien thereon for all expenses of
taking, towing, keeping, advertising and selling the boat or craft and for all
damages caused by the boat or craft to property of the city. The city may
enforce the lien by advertisement and sale of the boat or craft in like manner,
as secured transactions may be foreclosed under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as exonerating the owner or
operator of any boat or craft from personal liability to the city or any other
person for any damage or injury caused by the boat or craft.
('74 Code, § 23-68) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.059 OVERLADEN BOATS.
   No person shall operate, pilot or sale or attempt to operate, pilot, or sail
any boat or craft laden in such a manner as to be a source of danger to its
occupants.
('74 Code, § 23-69) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.060 NIGHT SAILING.
   No person shall sail or attempt to sail a sailboat during the time between
one hour before sunset and the time of sunrise.
('74 Code, § 23-70) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.061 DRIVER'S LICENSE.
   No person shall operate or attempt to operate any boat or craft equipped
with a motor or engine unless the person has been issued a motor vehicle
driver's or operator's license by the state or any other state or territory of
the United States and the license is in full force and effect.
('74 Code, 23-71) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.062 ICE BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or sail or attempt to operate or sail any
iceboat.
('74 Code, § 23-72) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
FISHING
§ 93.070 STATE PERSONNEL EXEMPT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to or be construed to be done by the
city or by agents of the Department of Conservation of the state in protecting
or caring for the reservoir or the aquatic life within.
('74 Code, § 23-79) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.071 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person over the age of 21 years or any other person required to be
licensed by the laws of the state shall take, catch or attempt to take or catch
any species of fish, frog or turtle without a state fishing license in full
force and effect, issued to the person and in the person's possession. All
persons shall adhere strictly to the Game and Fish Code of the state and
amendments to it.
('74 Code, § 23-80) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.072 PROHIBITED FISHING METHODS.
   (A)   No person shall take, catch or attempt to take or catch any fish in
the reservoir by the use of any trotline, jug, or throw line.
   (B)   The use of any seine of any character, of any kip, hook, fyke, gill,
pound or basket net, or of any trap for taking or catching of aquatic life is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The use of snares, firearms or artificial light for the taking
catching of aquatic life is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   Spearing, gigging and the use of bow and arrow in the taking of rough
fish only will be allowed.
('74 Code, § 23-81) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 895, passed 6-4-74)
§ 93.073 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF POLES.
   No person shall fish, take, catch or attempt to take or catch fish with more
than two poles.
('74 Code, § 23-82) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 895, passed 6-4-74)
§ 93.074 UNATTENDED TACKLE.
   No person shall take, catch or attempt to take or catch any fish in the
reservoir by means of a hook attached to a pole, which tackle is left
unattended for more than 15 minutes.
('74 Code, § 23-83) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.075 SUSPENSION OF PRIVILEGES.
   The privilege of fishing in the reservoir, or any part thereof, may be
suspended by the city whenever the suspension shall be deemed proper to
conserve aquatic life or to prevent any tendency to pollute the waters of the
reservoir, or to promote the improvement or convenient maintenance of the
premises. The posting of any authorized sign in any part shall suspend the
privilege of fishing at the location.
('74 Code, § 23-84) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.076 PROTECTION AGAINST POLLUTION.
   All persons using the waters of the reservoir for fishing purposes shall use
them so as not to create any unsanitary condition in or about the water or so
as to pollute or make any part of the waters unwholesome or unfit for use.
('74 Code, § 23-85) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.077 THROWING BACK FISH.
   In order to attempt to create a favorable numerical balance of species of
the fish population in the reservoir, no person shall release or throw back
into the reservoir any fish caught or taken from the reservoir except
largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), smallmouth bass (Micropterus
dolomieu), channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) or flathead catfish
(Pylodictis olivaris).
('74 Code, § 23-86) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
MODEL AIRPLANES
§ 93.080 MODEL AIRPLANES.
   (A)   The city agrees to assign the Pikeland Sky Chiefs the area designated
on the map attached to Ord. 1274 for use by the Club.
   (B)   The Pikeland Sky Chiefs shall administer the aforesaid area, provide
on-site supervision during the times which their models are operating and as
assigned by the city, and shall post the area accordingly with the rules and
regulations pertaining to the use of models.
   (C)   At times that this area is in use and being supervised by the Pikeland
Sky Chiefs, users permitted to use the facilities must be current members of
the Academy of Model Aeronautics (AMA) and shall abide by all rules and
regulations posted and administered by the Pikeland Sky Chiefs, including but
not limited to the AMA Safety Code. The Pikeland Sky Chiefs shall have the
authority to request that violators of such rules and regulations remove
themselves from the premises. At all other times, any use of these facilities
shall be at the user’s own risk and in accordance with any posted times, rules
and/or regulations.
   (D)   Individuals that are nonmembers of the AMA shall be permitted to use
the premises provided that they have received a permit to do so from the City
Clerk. The application for said permit shall include a proof of insurance
certificate which would indicate coverage in an amount of at least $2,500,000
combined single limit for personal injury or property damage and shall include
the city as an additional insured. Said permit shall be valid for the length of
the insurance coverage.
(Ord. 1274, passed 9-17-02)
LAKE POLICE OFFICERS
§ 93.090 APPOINTMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city may appoint and employ special police officers, deputy
sheriffs and deputy game wardens to act as police officers, who shall be known
as “Lake Police,” as the city may determine to be necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Each officer so appointed shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and any and all provisions of this code and other
city ordinances, rules and regulations for the government, control and
protection of the reservoir and the premises and all sanitary regulations and
ordinances and any and all laws, ordinances, regulations and rulings of any
governmental authority applicable to the premises and it shall be his or her
duty to do so.
('74 Code, § 23-98) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.091 OATH; BOND.
   Each Lake Police Officer, before entering the duties of office, shall take
the oath prescribed by law for public officers and shall give bond to the city
in the sum of $1,000, with sureties as the city shall approve, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of all the duties of the office.
('74 Code, § 23-99) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.092 UNIFORMS AND BADGES.
   (A)   Each Lake Police Officer may wear a uniform of the material and
pattern that may be prescribed by the city, to be furnished by each officer at
his or her own expense, except that the metal star or shield shall be furnished
by the city.
   (B)   Upon the resignation or removal of a Lake Police Officer, the metal
star or shield shall be immediately delivered to the city.
('74 Code, § 23-100) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.093 SPECIAL OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may, when in his or her judgment the protection, regulation or
control of the premises so requires, appoint or employ Special Police Officers
as may be necessary and with the duties as the Mayor may prescribe. These
Special Police Officers shall possess the powers and be subject to the duties
of regular police officers as provided for in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 23-101) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.094 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Each Lake Police Officer shall have the power, and it shall be his or
her duty, to preserve the peace and good order and to protect all property on
the premises, to arrest any person found in the act of violating or attempting
to violate any law of the state or any provision of this code or other city
ordinance, rule or regulation of the city for the protection and control of the
premises and sanitary regulations and ordinances as to the premises, or arrest
anyone aiding and abetting such a violation or attempted violation, and shall
take all persons so arrested before a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (1)   In the event no court of competent jurisdiction is in session, the
person so arrested shall be detained in any safe place until the person so
arrested can be brought before a court of competent jurisdiction for trial.
      (2)   In all cases of violation of ordinances, rules and regulations of
the city the arresting officer may, in the first instance, issue an arrest slip
to the offending party, thereby notifying him or her where and in what court he
or she shall appear. It shall be the duty of the arresting officer to file
copies of the arresting notice with a brief statement of the offense in the
name and address of the offender, together with his or her license number, if
any, if known and within 12 hours after the service of the notice, in the city.
   (B)   The city, when it is deemed necessary, may detail any Lake Police
Officer for the discharge of any special duty and may require the officers to
perform police duty at any time of the day or night, although certain hours
shall be allotted each such officer for duty. A Lake Police Officer must be
prepared to act on a moment's notice whenever his or her service may be
required in view of any violation or threatened violation of any provision of
this code or other city ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to the
premises.
('74 Code, § 23-102) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.095 NEGLECT OF DUTY.
   Any Lake Police Officer who shall neglect or refuse to perform any duty
required of him or her by this subchapter or by other ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city or who shall, in the discharge of his or her duties as
a Lake Police Officer, be guilty of fraud, favoritism, extortion, suppression,
willful wrong or injury shall, in each case, be subject to the penalty
prescribed in §
10.99 and shall be subject to suspension and removal from duties.
('74 Code, § 23-103) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.096 CONDUCT OF OFFICERS.
   Lake Police Officers shall be civil and respectful to the public upon all
occasions, perform their duty with good temper and discretion and shall not at
any time while on duty make use of violent, intemperate or abusive language. No
Lake Police Officer shall communicate to any person any information which may
lead to the escape from arrest or punishment of any person accused of a crime.
('74 Code, § 23-104) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.097 RECORDS.
   Each Lake Police Officer shall always have with him or her a memorandum book
in which he or she shall take the names of persons taken into custody by him or
her, together with the names of witnesses who may be necessary in the
successful prosecution of the persons and such matters as may important in the
trial of the case.
('74 Code, § 23-105) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.098 ASSISTING OFFICERS.
   Any Lake Police Officer may at any time call upon any able-bodied male
person above the age of 18 years aid him in arresting, retaining or holding in
custody any person guilty of having committed any unlawful act or charged
therewith or to aid the officer in preventing the commission of an unlawful
act. Whoever shall neglect or refuse to give such aid or assistance when so
required shall be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
('74 Code, § 23-106) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.099 RESISTING OFFICERS.
   Whoever shall resist or in any way hinder a Lake Police Officer in the
discharge of his or her duty, or shall endeavor to do so or who shall, in any
manner assist, any person in the custody of any such officer to escape or
attempt to escape some such custody, or who shall attempt to rescue any person
in such custody, shall be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
('74 Code, § 23-107) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.100 IMPERSONATING OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate any Lake Police
Officer or other employee of the city, or to maliciously or with intent to
deceive, use or imitate any of the signs, signals or devices used by a Lake
Police Officer or, not being such an officer, to wear in public the police
uniform provided for in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 23-107) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise
indicated, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished by a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750. Except where otherwise provided
by law, all fines and penalties received for violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and used for the policing, care, supervision,
maintenance and improvements of the premises. Each day a violation occurs or
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.045 will be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $200
per incident and a six-month suspension of privileges to operate a watercraft
or boat on the reservoir.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.080 will be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $200
per day per offense.
('74 Code, § 23-33) (Ord. 741, passed 12-1-64; Am. Ord. 1035, passed 3-19-85;
Am. Ord 1268, passed 6-18-02; Am. Ord. 1274, passed 9-17-02)
CHAPTER 94: LIBRARY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Establishment affirmed
   
94.02   Damage
   
94.03   Failure to return materials
Administration
   
94.10   Board of Directors
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ESTABLISHMENT AFFIRMED.
   The Pittsfield Public Library, heretofore established by ordinance, is
hereby affirmed.
('74 Code, § 14-1)
§ 94.02 DAMAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, newspaper, plate,
picture, engraving or other property belonging to the Public Library.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously commit
any injury upon the public library or upon the buildings, furniture or fixtures
or other property thereof.
('74 Code, § 14-3)
§ 94.03 FAILURE TO RETURN MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to return any book belonging to
the Public Library according to the requirements of the bylaws duly made and
adopted by the Board of Directors for the government thereof.
('74 Code, § 14-4)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 94.10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Public Library shall be under the supervision and management of a Board
of Directors, the members of which shall be appointed in accordance with the
provision of the statutes of the state relating to public libraries. The Board
shall have all the power and authority conferred by any such statutes.
('74 Code, § 14-2)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Types of nuisances
   
95.02   Complainants
   
95.03   Abatement
   
95.04   Endangering public health
   
95.05   Abandoned refrigerators and the like
   
95.06   Hazmat regulations
Specific Nuisances
   
95.15   Open burning
   
95.16   Garbage and refuse
   
95.17   Tree branches, leaves and grass
   
95.18   Removal of garbage and refuse; lien
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 TYPES OF NUISANCES.
   Any of the following acts within the city are declared a nuisance:
   (A)   Nuisances defined by state law; nuisances in fact. Any of those acts
or omissions declared nuisances by state laws and which are known as nuisances
in the common law, not hereinafter enumerated in this subchapter, or those acts
or omissions which are nuisances in fact.
   (B)   Nuisances defined by this code. Any of those acts or omissions that
are declared by this code to be nuisances.
   (C)   Unsafe, unsightly structures. Any building, structure, street sign or
billboard in an unsafe, hazardous or unsightly condition.
   (D)   Distillery, slaughterhouse and the like. To carry on, use or occupy
any distillery or slaughtering establishment or establishment for steaming or
rendering lard, tallow, offal, dead animals or other substance of like nature
without the permission of the City Council.
   (E)   Odors. To engage in any activity which causes or produces unreasonably
offensive odors. This division does not apply to those activities carried on in
the public interest.
   (F)   Putrid substances. To maintain or permit any substance on the premises
which is or may become putrid or create an unhealthy condition.
   (G)   Noises. To cause or allow unreasonably loud noises tending to cause
alarm or to disturb the public peace and quiet.
   (H)   Continuing violations of this code. To continue to do any act or
omission which constitutes a violation of this code or other ordinance of the
city.
   (I)   Attractive nuisances. To create, maintain, or suffer an attractive
nuisance to remain on the premises, as owner or occupant of any premises.
   (J)   Zoning violations. To violate the provisions in
Chapter 156 of this code.
   (K)   Unhealthy conditions. To create, allow, maintain, or permit any
condition which may endanger the public health.
   (L)   Encroachments. To cause, allow, permit, or suffer any encroachment
upon public ways or upon public grounds without obtaining a permit therefor.
   (M)   Violation of technical codes. To cause, allow, permit, or suffer the
violation of the city's building, electrical or fire prevention codes or any
other technical code adopted by any provision of this code.
   (N)   Abandoned refrigerators. To leave or permit standing outside of any
structure or within any abandoned structure in a place accessible to children
any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container
which has an airtight door or lid with a snap lock or other locking device
which cannot be released from the inside, except it shall not be a nuisance
under this division if the door first is removed from the device.
   (O)   Littering. To allow, suffer, permit, or cause to be dropped, thrown,
discarded, placed or deposited on any public way or public place or on any
private property when public property may be affected thereby any paper, glass,
plastic, wood, metal, solid or liquid vegetable or animal compound, rubbish,
garbage, waste, effluent, junk, debris, litter, solid waste or any combination
thereof, except in a refuse receptacle or landfill site of the city.
('74 Code, § 18-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned refrigerators, see §
95.06
§ 95.02 COMPLAINANTS.
   The following shall have standing to complain of any condition declared by
this chapter:
   (A)   The city.
   (B)   Any person whose interests, rights or property are particularly
adversely affected by the nuisance.
('74 Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any person having standing to complain of a nuisance under this
chapter, or the head of any city department aware of a nuisance shall report
the fact of the nuisance and details surrounding it to the City Attorney. The
Attorney, if justified under the circumstances, shall institute abatement
proceedings in accordance with the laws of the state.
('74 Code, § 18-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
   (B)   When a nuisance exists and it causes or threatens imminent danger or
great peril to persons or property, it immediately may be abated by the city,
using the following procedure:
      (1)   The Mayor shall find whether the nuisance exists and whether it
causes or threatens imminent danger or great peril to persons or property and
whether an emergency exists.
      (2)   A copy of the Mayor's findings made under division (B)(1) above
shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk.
      (3)   The Clerk immediately shall issue a notice directed to the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the nuisance exists, directing the owner or
occupant to abate the nuisance immediately.
      (4)   The notice issued pursuant to division (B)(3) above shall be served
upon the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the nuisance exists. The
notice may be served by any officer or employee of the city. In the event the
owner or occupant of the premises is not found, the notice may be posted on the
premises on which the nuisance exists.
      (5)   Upon being served with a notice to abate a nuisance as provided in
division (B)(4) above, the owner or occupant of the premises on which the
nuisance is located shall abate the nuisance immediately. The failure of the
owner or occupant to immediately abate the nuisance upon service or posting of
the notice shall be a violation of this code.
      (6)   In the event the owner or occupant of a premises on which a
nuisance is ordered to be abated under this section does not immediately abate
the nuisance, the appropriate city department shall abate the nuisance
immediately. The cost of the abatement by the city shall be assessed against
the property on which the nuisance existed and shall be collected as other
special assessments.
('74 Code, § 18-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or do any act which endangers
the public health.
('74 Code, § 19-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building or other structure or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, dwelling or other structure under his or her control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door or lid with a snap
lock or other locking device which cannot be readily released from the inside,
without first removing the door, lid, snap lock or other locking device.
('74 Code, § 19-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 HAZMAT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It has been found that the storage, handling and dispensing of
hazardous substances within the city has the potential for creating a dangerous
situation that may adversely affect the health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. A substance or material in a quantity and form
determined by the United States Department of Transportation to be capable of
posing an unreasonable risk to health and safety or property when transported
in commerce.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person who:
         (a)   Owns or has custody of hazardous materials that is involved in
an incident requiring emergency action, by an emergency response agency; or
         (b)   Owns or has custody of bulk or non-bulk packaging or a transport
vehicle that contains hazardous material that is involved in an incident
requiring emergency action by an emergency response agency; and
         (c)   Who causes or substantially contributed to the cause of the
incident.
   (C)   Therefore, a "response fee" shall be paid to the City Fire Department
by the person, corporation, or entity which created the hazard, or which owned
the materials or chemicals. The fee shall be determined by the primary response
fee, the hourly rate plus the cost incurred at the scene of the hazardous
incident. The "response fee" shall be itemized for invoicing purposes.
      (1)   Primary response fee, for any response involving the Fire
Department, ESDA, or Specialized Response Team: $300.
      (2)   An hourly fee will commence when on-site scene action is initiated
by the ESDA, Local Fire Departments, or the Specialized Response Team and
continue until the incident is concluded and the team has cleared the scene and
is back in service. Hourly rate: $100 due and payable to each piece of
equipment or truck responding to the incident. There will also be assessed a
fee of $50 per trained person per hour.
      (3)   Costs incurred shall include any and all reasonable costs and
expenses incurred by the city or county, its agencies, representatives,
Specialized Response Team, and/or fire departments responding to the incident.
Costs include but are not limited to contractual services, wages, salaries,
damaged or destroyed equipment, spill control supplies, protective clothing,
fire fighting or vapor suppressing foam, cleanup activities, medical care and
medical supplies. When reimbursement is requested for damaged or destroyed
equipment, spill control supplies, protective clothing, fire fighting or vapor
suppressing foam, the cost will be calculated at the replacement value, not the
depreciated value.
(Ord. 1301, passed 10-5-04)
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 95.15 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Prohibited. No burning of trash, rubbish or other combustible material
for the sole purpose of destroying and disposing of the same shall be allowed
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day in the city.
      (1)   All such fires shall be completely extinguished on or before 6:00
p.m. on any day.
      (2)   It is not intended to prohibit the burning of combustible materials
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day, if such burning is
done for any purpose other than to destroy such material.
      (3)   Prohibited fires and burning between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any
day are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Defined. As used in this subchapter, the phrase OPEN BURNING means the
combustion of any material in such a way that the products of the combustion
are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing through equipment
for which a permit could be issued under state environmental protection
regulations.
   (C)   Safety.  
      (1)   No fire shall be left unattended at any time.
      (2)   No smoldering or smoking burning piles of debris shall be allowed
at any time.
      (3)   If the smoke from any fire poses a nuisance or health hazard to
neighbors, the fire shall be extinguished.
   (D)   Exemptions. Recreational fires, including cooking, campfires and
ornamental fires, are not in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1362, passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 1377, passed 5-20-08) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Burning prohibited. Burning of garbage shall be prohibited at all
times.
   (B)   Garbage defined.  GARBAGE is any food refuse.
(Ord. 1362, passed 9-18-07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 TREE BRANCHES, LEAVES AND GRASS.
   (A)   Burning prohibited on city-owned property. Burning and disposal of
tree leaves and branches shall be prohibited on any city-owned property,
including any city-owned right-of-way, excluding areas where the city has
authorized burning and disposal.
   (B)   Hours for burning restricted.
      (1)   No burning of twigs, branches, leaves and grass shall be allowed
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. within the city on any day.
      (2)   All fires shall be fully extinguished on or before 6:00 p.m. on any
day.
      (3)   Any fires burning between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. are hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
      (4)   The burning of twigs, branches, leaves and grass between 8:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m., except on city rights-of-way, shall be allowed within the city,
unless burning of the same shall present a health hazard to the citizens of the
city.
(Ord. 1362, passed 9-18-07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 REMOVAL OR GARBAGE AND REFUSE; LIEN.
   (A)   Removal by city. Whenever the owner of property, after reasonable
notice, refuses or neglects to remove garbage and refuse found upon such
property, the city may remove or see to the removal of such garbage and refuse,
and may collect from such owner the reasonable cost of such removal.
   (B)   Refuse defined. REFUSE means any discarded matter; or any matter that
can be reduced in volume, or otherwise changed in chemical or physical
properties, in order to facilitate its discard, removal or disposal.
   (C)   Lien. In the event that the city removes or sees to the removal of
such garbage and refuse, it shall file a lien to recover the reasonable cost of
that removal within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred.
(Ord. 1362, passed 9-18-07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.15 et seq. shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1362, passed 9-18-07)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Injury to pavement; prevention
   
96.02   Operation of motor vehicles on streets and alleys under construction or
repair
   
96.03   Altering existing streets and sidewalks
   
96.04   Drainage onto public ways
   
96.05   Numbering buildings
   
96.06   Grades
   
96.07   Driveways across sidewalks
   
96.08   Encroachments
   
96.09   Permit required to block public ways
   
96.10   Signs on public property
   
96.11   Trash receptacle ban on city right-of-way
Administration and Enforcement
   
96.20   Authority of Street Department
Apportionment of Costs
   
96.30   For construction
   
96.31   For repair
Excavation
   
96.40   Permit required
   
96.41   Restoration
   
96.42   Placement of storage tanks and the like under pavement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 INJURY TO PAVEMENT; PREVENTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build a fire for any purpose
whatever on the paved portion of any street in the city or on any concrete
sidewalk therein, or to pour salt water or permit it to flow on the paved
portion of any street or concrete sidewalk within the city.
('74 Code, § 24-1) (Ord. 200, passed 7-6-26)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to damage sidewalks by the use of trucks, heavy
machinery or by any other method. For any movement onto or across sidewalks,
other than foot traffic, there shall be due and proper protection provided so
no damage will result from the movement.
('74 Code, § 24-22) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
§ 96.02 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS AND ALLEYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR
REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon any street or
alley in the city when the street or alley is under construction or repair and
is so designated by a barricade or sign.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to remove or tamper with any barricade or sign on
any street or alley within the city.
('74 Code, § 24-2) (Ord. 565, passed 6-19-56)
§ 96.03 ALTERING EXISTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   When any person or property owner desires to improve any property and it
necessitates the removal, altering or relocation of existing sidewalk or street
elevation that is serving its purpose at this time, or the altering of the
terrain or drainage that will, in the future, cause any expense to the city or
other property owners, the owner shall assume any and all expense so incurred.
('74 Code, § 24-3) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
§ 96.04 DRAINAGE ONTO PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to permit any filthy or
unclean water or any offensive, putrid or noxious liquid or substance to be
drained by tiles or otherwise to be conducted, deposited or placed into or upon
any of the streets, alleys, highways or public places within the city.
('74 Code, § 24-6) (Ord. 116, passed 8-7-17)
§ 96.05 NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of properly numbering houses in the city, Madison
Street shall be used as a dividing line for numbering east and west and
Washington Street shall be used as a dividing line for numbering north and
south.
   (B)   Running east and west from Madison Street, the houses shall be
numbered beginning with the number 100, and a new number of hundreds shall be
used for the beginning of each block, upon each and every street running east
and west from Madison Street the method of numbering shall be systematically
used so all streets shall be numbered in a uniform manner east and west of
Madison Street. The odd numbers shall be upon the south side of each street and
the even numbers shall be upon the north side.
   (C)   Running north and south from Washington Street, the houses shall be
numbered beginning with the number 100, and a new number of hundreds shall be
taken and used for the beginning of each block, upon each and every street
running north and south from Washington Street, which method of numbering shall
be systematically used to all streets shall be numbered in a uniform manner
north and south of Washington Street. The even numbers shall be upon the east
side of each street and the odd numbers shall be upon the west side.
   (D)   In numbering houses upon the streets of the city, a distance of 20
feet shall be used for each number, whether there is any houses thereon or not.
('74 Code, § 24-7) (Ord. 107, passed 9-17-15)
§ 96.06 GRADES.
   The grades of the streets, avenues, alleys and sidewalks in the city shall
be the same as heretofore established and shall be in accordance with the plats
of the City Engineer and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
('74 Code, § 24-8)
§ 96.07 DRIVEWAYS ACROSS SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Whenever a new driveway is desired by a property owner, it shall be
granted by the City Council upon proper application and upon the strengthening
of that portion of the sidewalk to be converted into a crossing so the city
will not be put to any expense for the driveway.
      (1)   The crossing shall be strengthened by good and sufficient concrete
approaches to the edge of the sidewalk and the removed portion of the existing
sidewalk with Class A concrete.
      (2)   The removal shall be complied with if, in the judgment of the city,
it is necessary.
   (B)   When a driveway is created or permitted under the terms of this
section, the property owner shall pay the cost of a corrugated tube at least 16
feet long and 12 inches in diameter with rolled rims. The street department
will install the tube or specify the elevation at which it shall be installed
and shall have the final determination as to the need, length and diameter of
the tube.
   (C)   The specifications and requirements contained in this section also
shall apply on replacements or where a driveway has been created without
permission or a tube was not provided and is necessary.
('74 Code, § 24-23) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
§ 96.08 ENCROACHMENTS.
   The streets, alleys and sidewalks in the city shall be kept free and clear
of all encumbrances and encroachments and shall be kept open for the use of the
public. They also shall not be used or occupied in any way other than as
provided this chapter.
('74 Code, § 24-36)
§ 96.09 PERMIT REQUIRED TO BLOCK PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   A permit shall be required, approved by the City Council upon proper
application, for the purpose of blocking street, alley, sidewalk or other
public property or any part thereof, or for the purpose of storing gravel,
sand, cement, lumber or any other materials for use on any public or private
property.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant assumes full and
complete responsibility for any and all accidents resulting from the issuance
of the permit. The applicant shall provide proper barricades and flares for the
protection of the public.
('74 Code, § 24-37) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
§ 96.10 SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City Council not to issue permits for the
construction of signs of any nature upon city streets, alleys or other public
property.
   (B)   Any sign or other thing constructed on city property prior to
September 27, 1955, that is considered dangerous or detrimental to the
direction and control of traffic or in the interests of the safety and welfare
of the public shall be removed within a reasonable time after being notified by
the city. The provisions of this division shall pertain to all construction
performed without a permit from the Council.
   (C)   All signs or other things constructed on city property prior to
September 27, 1955, may not be required to be removed except those declared a
hazard to traffic or the public safety. All signs or other things coming under
the terms of this division shall be removed when they are in need of
maintenance or repair to an extent that maintenance or repairs would
approximate the cost of removal. If, in the opinion of the Traffic Committee, a
sign should be removed immediately, the provisions of this division shall not
apply.
   (D)   In order to enforce the provisions of division (C) above, all acts of
maintenance or repair of signs and other things on city property shall require
a permit therefor and no permit shall be issued for repairs or maintenance if
it is considered by the city, after thorough investigation, that the use of the
sign or other thing shall be discontinued and no repairs or maintenance made
thereto and removed from city property.
('74 Code, § 24-38) (Ord. 545, passed 9-27-55)
§ 96.11 TRASH RECEPTACLE BAN ON CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   This section is enacted to maintain the aesthetic appeal, cleanliness,
and safety of the city's right-of-way. The purpose of this section is to
prohibit the placement of trash receptacles on city right-of-way except as
otherwise provided.
   (B)   Definitions.
      CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public street, alley, sidewalk.
      TRASH RECEPTACLE. Any container or bin used for the collection or
disposal of waste, garbage, or refuse.
   (C)   Prohibition of trash receptacles on city right-of-way.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person, entity, or organization to place, install, or maintain any
trash receptacle on the city's right-of-way.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) shall not apply to:
         (a)    City-designated areas: Trash receptacles designated and
installed by the city in specific areas within the right-of-way.
         (b)   Authorized events: Temporary trash receptacles provided by event
organizers with prior approval from the city for special events or gatherings
taking place on the city's right-of-way.
         (c)   Temporary construction receptacles with prior approval from the
city.
         (d)   Within 24 hours of the scheduled garbage pickup.
   (D)   Removal of unauthorized trash receptacles.
      (1)   If any trash receptacle is found on the city's right-of-way in
violation of this section, the city may remove or cause the removal of such
receptacle without prior notice.
      (2)   The costs incurred by the city in removing unauthorized trash
receptacles may be charged to the person, entity, or organization responsible
for placing the receptacle.
(Ord. 1718, passed 9-19-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.20 AUTHORITY OF STREET DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Department to enforce this chapter or to
cause it to be enforced.
('74 Code, § 24-24) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
APPORTIONMENT OF COSTS
§ 96.30 FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All original sidewalk construction within the city after June 1, 1956,
may be constructed with equal participation between the city and the property
owner or the person desiring the sidewalk, if the city's share is properly
appropriated and funds are available.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply where there are no existing streets
or a subdivision where the Plan Commission has jurisdiction.
('74 Code, § 24-20) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-17-56)
§ 96.31 FOR REPAIR.
   The city shall, as funds become available and are properly appropriated,
repair existing sidewalks at city expense in the residential sections of the
city. In the business district, the city shall participate only on a portion of
sidewalk replacement 36 inches wide and six inches thick.
('74 Code, § 24-21) (Ord. 536, passed 8-16-55)
EXCAVATION
§ 96.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate any pavement, sidewalk or
any part thereof or to remove any sod, stone, earth, sand or gravel from any
street, avenue, alley or public ground in the city without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the City Council.
('74 Code, § 24-4)
§ 96.41 RESTORATION.
   (A)   Whenever any excavation shall be made in any street or alley in the
city for the purpose of a water or sewer connection or for any other purpose,
the excavation shall be carefully and promptly filled by the person making the
excavation or causing it to be made. When the purpose of the excavation has
been accomplished, the dirt shall be packed and tamped in such a manner that
the inconvenience attending the settling thereof shall be reduced to the
minimum and the street or alley shall be, so far as possible, restored to the
same condition as before the excavation was made.
   (B)   Should any person, having made or caused to be made an excavation in
any street or alley of the city, fail or neglect to restore the street or alley
as provided in division (A) above, the city shall proceed and restore the
street or alley to its proper condition and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the person making or causing the excavation to be made, which
expense may be collected by the city by action at law.
('74 Code, § 24-5) (Ord. 198, passed 6-1-26)
§ 96.42 PLACEMENT OF STORAGE TANKS AND THE LIKE UNDER PAVEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or install any storage
tank, equipment, apparatus or other object under any sidewalk or pavement
within the city.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not be construed to apply
to the installation or making of any water or sewer connection in the manner
provided by this title.
   (C)   The replacement or reconstruction of any storage tank, equipment,
apparatus or object under any sidewalk pavement in the city except as provided
by division (B) above shall be deemed a violation of this section.
('74 Code, § 24-39) (Ord. 239, passed 1-3-30)
CHAPTER 97: WEED CONTROL
Section
   
97.01   Definition
   
97.02   Cutting required
   
97.03   Garden area
   
97.04   Notice and removal
   
97.05   Lien for removal
   
97.06   Notice of lien
   
97.07   Validity of lien
   
97.08   Release of lien
   
97.09   Foreclosure
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS. As used in this chapter shall mean and include any annual or
perennial herbaceous plant of volunteer growth, which is not cultivated or
specifically grown for human food; any high or rank growth that may conceal
filthy deposits or constitute a fire hazard when dry, or any non-cultivated
plant which reaches a height of eight inches.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.02 CUTTING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner of real property to refuse or neglect to
cut weeds when such weeds on his property shall have reached a height in excess
of eight inches.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 GARDEN AREA.
   A weed and trimming notice shall not be issued for weeds in gardens during
the regular growing season. When the city determines a garden is done
producing, all provisions of this chapter to abate and eradicate such nuisance
will be enforced.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.04 NOTICE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city shall serve a weed and trimming notice either personally or
by regular mail to the occupant of the premises and to the name and address of
the tax bill owner listed on the County Assessor’s records. A notice shall be
deemed to have commenced to run from the date such notice is mailed. A notice
shall be deemed sufficient although the person to which it is directed refused
delivery of the same or if it is not deliverable. The text of the notice shall
contain the date, a reference to the provision of this chapter violated and a
brief description of the violation, the address or description of the property
sufficient for the identification thereof, and a statement that if the weeds
are not abated within five days the city will provide for the abatement of the
weeds and the cost or expenses related to such abatement, lien filing and
foreclosure of lien shall be charged to the person.
   (B)   Only one weed and trimming notice shall be required to be sent per
property during any one calendar year. In the event subsequent violations are
observed during the same calendar year, the city may proceed as set forth in
division (B)(1) below, without further notice.
      (1)   Abatement by city. Upon refusal or neglect to comply with the weed
and trimming notice within five days of its mailing and delivery, the city
shall have the power to enter upon the premises, or to authorize its agent to
do so, and abate said weeds. The city may grant a one-time five-day extension
per calendar year to the compliance deadline established in the weed and
trimming notice if requested by the responsible party.
      (2)   Statement of cost. The actual costs of abatement of weeds,
eradication of noxious and exotic weeds, costs of processing the bill, mailing
or serving documents, recording documents and any other incidental expenses
shall be billed to the occupant of the premises and to the tax bill owner
listed on the City Assessor’s records. A statement for said costs shall be
served either personally or by regular mail and must include:
         (a)   A reference to the ordinance violated;
         (b)   Identify the property where the violation occurred sufficient
for identification thereof and general location of the weeds that were cut;
         (c)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service;
         (d)   The date or dates when the cost or expenses were incurred by the
city or one acting under its direction or control; and
         (e)   An explanation that if the bill is not paid in full within 15
days, a late fee will be added to the bill and the city will prepare and file a
lien.
   (C)   The occupant of the subject property as well as the property owner may
be served with the notice of abatement. If the violation results in a fine,
both the occupant and the property owner may be fined.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06; Am. Ord. 1442, passed 9-20-11)
§ 97.05 LIEN FOR REMOVAL.
   If, within 60 days after the cost and expense of removal of growth in
violation of this chapter is incurred, the city or person performing the
service by the city’s authority, in his or its own name files a notice of lien
in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds then such cost and expense shall
be a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all subsequent liens,
except tax liens. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
municipality.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.06 NOTICE OF LIEN.
   If said costs are not paid within 15 days of the mailing of said statement
the city shall proceed to perfect and enforce a lien upon said real estate
affected, as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7 as now in force and
hereafter amended. A notice of lien filed shall be served either personally or
by certified mail to the tax bill owner listed on the City Assessor’s records
informing him/her a lien has been filed.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.07 VALIDITY OF LIEN.
   The lien provided for by this chapter shall not be valid as to any purchaser
whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequently to the weed
cutting and prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien shall not be valid
as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to
such real estate arise prior to the filing of such notice.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.08 RELEASE OF LIEN.
   Upon payment of the costs and expenses by the owner of, or persons
interested in such property after notice of the lien has been filed, the lien
provided for by this chapter shall be released by the city or person in whose
name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of record as in the
case of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.09 FORECLOSURE.
   If the cost, or expenses, for weed abatement has remained unpaid for two
years after it has been incurred, the city may proceed to foreclose such lien
in like manner and with like effect as provided by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes in foreclosure of mortgages or mechanics liens. The costs of
foreclosure incurred by the municipality, including court costs, reasonable
attorney fees, advanced to preserve the property, and other costs related to
the enforcement of this section, plus statutory interest, are a lien on the
real estate and are recoverable by the municipality from the owner or owners of
the real estate.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   The failure to destroy such weeds within the designated period shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and a fine shall be assessed in the
amount of $150 for each such violation plus a $100 per hour labor cost with a
minimum charge of $100 to abate such weeds. In the event that the city cleans
up and/or removes or sees to the clean up and/or removal of such weeds, it
shall file a lien to recover the reasonable cost of that clean up and/or
removal within 180 days after such cost and expense is incurred. The lien may
be foreclosed in the Circuit Court of Pike County.
(Ord. 1346, passed 11-21-06; Am. Ord. 1519, passed 7-1-14)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   98.01   Declaration of policy
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby
declared the policy of the City of Pittsfield, to assure equal opportunity to
all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary,
healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale,
rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the
furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 1392, passed 10-21-08)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to  shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1392, passed 10-21-08)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of the real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, property values
in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 1392, passed 10-21-08)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1392, passed 10-21-08)
CHAPTER 99: SHADE TREES
Section
   
99.01   Title
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   City Tree Board
   
99.04   Species
   
99.05   Planting
   
99.06   Trimming and removal
   
99.07   Spraying
   
99.08   Amendment
   
99.09   Tree replacement program
   
99.10   Planting, maintenance and removal
   
99.11   Obstruction; pruning
   
99.12   Protection of trees
   
99.13   High-risk trees
   
99.14   Trimming of trees for protection of wires
   
99.15   Placing materials on public property
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the shade tree ordinance.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular, and words
in the singular include the plural. The word “shall” is mandatory and not
merely directory.
   CITY TREE BOARD. A board of seven members, appointed by the Mayor, each to
serve a term of one year.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the construction of any structure on a
commercial or residential lot within the city limits.
   LARGE TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 50 feet or more.
   MEDIUM TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 30 feet to 50 feet.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Pittsfield.
   NATIVE TREES. Species known to be part of the flora of Central Illinois
before the time of settlement.
   PARK. All public parks.
   PARKWAY. That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between a private property line and the street or highway.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning private property as shown by the County
Assessor’s plat of Pike County, State of Illinois.
   PUBLIC PLACES. All grounds owned by the City of Pittsfield, County of Pike,
State of Illinois.
   PUBLIC TREES. Includes all shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter
growing on any street or any public areas, unless otherwise indicated.
   SHRUBS. Any plant attaining a height of less than ten feet.
   SMALL TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of up to 30 feet.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public right-of-way.
   TREE CONSERVATOR. The Tree Conservator shall be the City Manager, or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.03 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   Regulation of planting, maintenance and removal. The Tree
Conservator, or his or her designated agent, with the City Tree Board, shall
have the authority and jurisdiction of regulating the planting, maintenance and
removal of trees on streets and other publicly owned property.
      (2)   Supervision.  The Tree Conservator, or his or her designated agent,
shall have the authority and it shall be his or her duty to supervise and
inspect all work done under a permit issued in accordance with the terms of
this chapter.
      (3)   Affix conditions of permit. The Tree Conservator, or his or her
designated agent, shall have the authority to affix reasonable conditions to
the permit in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      (4)   Meetings. The City Tree Board will meet on a quarterly basis,
unless otherwise needed, and will make recommendations to the Tree Conservator
regarding tree issues.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Tree Board shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations governing the planting, maintenance, removal, fertilization,
pruning and bracing of trees on the streets and other public sites in the
municipality, and shall direct, regulate and control the planting, maintenance
and removal of all trees growing now or hereafter in any public area ofthe
city. The Tree Board shall cause the provisions of this chapter to be enforced.
      (2)   The Tree Conservator shall have the authority to grant certain
exceptions, provided the intent of the chapter is substantially observed.
   (C)   Interference with the Tree Conservator. No person shall hinder,
prevent, delay or interfere with the Tree Conservator, the Tree Board or their
agents, while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this
chapter.
   (D)   Arboricultural specifications and standards of practice; authority.
The Tree Board shall have the authority to promulgate the rules and regulations
of the arboricultural specifications and standards of practice governing the
planting, maintenance, removal, fertilization, pruning and bracing of trees on
public property in the municipality. A copy of the International Society of
Arboriculture standards for tree care is on file in City Hall. These include a
risk assessment standard and a pruning standard.
   (E)   Policy.
      (1)   Compliance required. All work on public trees shall comply with
this chapter.
      (2)   Standards. Standards shall be adhered to at all times, but may be
amended at any time that experience, new research or laws indicate improved
methods, or whenever circumstances make it advisable, with the approval of the
City Tree Board.
      (3)   Policy.  The policy of the City Tree Board shall be one of
cooperating with the public, property owners, other municipal departments, and
appropriate not-for-profit organizations, where deemed practical.
      (4)   Removal. No trees shall be removed from public places unless they
constitute a hazard to life or property, a public nuisance, or because a
revision of the planting plan necessitates their removal.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 SPECIES.
   (A)   Preparation of list. The Tree Conservator and the City Tree Board
shall prepare lists of trees acceptable for planting in the public sites of the
city. Undesirable trees shall not be recommended for general planting and their
use, if any, shall be restricted to special locations where, because of certain
characteristics of adaptability or landscape, they can be used effectively.
   (B)   Review of list.  Only desirable, long-lived trees of good appearance,
beauty, adaptability and generally free from injurious insects or disease shall
be planted in public sites. The Tree Conservator, or his or her delegate, shall
review at least once every two years the species and varieties included on the
approved list to determine if any should be removed for any reason, or if
certain new species or varieties of proven dependability and value should be
added.
   (C)   Acceptable shade tree list. The acceptable shade tree list shall be
available to the public at City Hall during normal business hours.
   (D)   Unacceptable tree list. The unacceptable shade tree list shall be
available to the public at City Hall during normal business hours.
   (E)   American standard for nursery stock. The American standard for nursery
stock is on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.05 PLANTING.
   (A)   Varying species. In order to prevent the spread of insects or disease,
varieties of tree species shall be planted on all public properties.
   (B)   Species approval. Tree species shall be approved by the City Tree
Board prior to planting in order to maintain an inventory of the various
species planted.
   (C)   Locations. All planting locations shall be approved by the Tree
Conservator, or his or her delegate, before planting.
      (1)   Spacing between trees. There shall be at least a 30-foot spacing
between small trees, a 40-foot spacing between medium trees, and a 50-foot
spacing between large trees.
      (2)   Spacing from improvements. Trees in the parkway shall be planted at
least 20 feet from all light poles, ten feet from all driveways and fireplugs
and four feet from all sidewalks and other paved areas. If the width of the
parkway is less than seven feet, the tree shall be centered in the parkway. If
the width of the parkway is less than five feet, only small trees shall be
planted.
      (3)   Corner lots. Trees to be planted shall be at least 20 feet from the
property corner at all street intersections. On comer lots, no plantings shall
be maintained higher than 30 inches above the centerline grade of the
intersecting streets, if located within that triangular portion of a required
front or side yard, situated within 20 feet of a lot comer formed by the
intersection of any two street lines.
   (D)   Size of trees along streets. Street trees to be planted or replanted
shall have a trunk diameter (measured 12 inches above the ground) of not less
than two and one-half inches.
   (E)   Maintenance. Proper maintenance and care shall be given to all newly
planted trees, which shall be replaced if not living one year after date of
planting.
   (F)   Planting in city parkways. Any tree that is to be planted in a city
parkway requires City Tree Board approval.
   (G)   Planting without approval. Persons planting trees after the effective
date of this chapter without prior approval of the City Tree Board may be
required to either replant a tree in an acceptable position and according to
city specifications, or to remove and/or replace the tree, at the violator’s
expense.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.06 TRIMMING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Parkway trees. All parkway trees shall be trimmed to the city
specifications for health, safety and appearance. All utility companies will
adhere to the International Society of Arboriculture standard on pruning, which
is on file in City Hall.
   (B)   Height above streets and walkways. Trees shall be trimmed at least 16
feet above streets for vehicle clearance (14 feet over streets where trucks are
prohibited) and pedestrian safety, as well as visibility. Trees shall be
trimmed at least seven feet above the sidewalk grade and shaped for proper
growth.
   (C)   Rotating of trimming.  The city may require that all trees be trimmed
on a rotating basis once every five years.
   (D)   Annual survey. Trees on municipal property shall be surveyed once
yearly and scheduled for removal if found to be diseased or hazardous.
   (E)   Removal prohibited. No person shall remove trees on public property
without a permit issued by the Tree Conservator.
   (F)   Diseased trees. No tree shall be removed from the parkway, unless
diseased, severely injured or dead, as determined by the Tree Conservator. The
Tree Conservator may replace that tree with an acceptable species at the
municipality’s expense.
   (G)   Stumps.  All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below
the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above
the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1517, passed 7-15-14; Am. Ord. 1558,
passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.07 SPRAYING.
   (A)   Prevention of nuisance. It shall be the duty of any person growing a
tree on his or her property to trim the trees, and to treat or remove any
diseased trees to prevent them from constituting a nuisance to neighbors or to
the public. Any tree or shrub overhanging any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel, or within 16 feet of the street (14 feet over streets where trucks are
prohibited) or seven feet of a sidewalk level, shall be trimmed accordingly by
the owner of the premises.
   (B)   Prevention of obstruction or dangerous conditions. All trees or limbs
of a tree that are likely to fall on or across any public way or property of
another, or to interfere with the vision of vehicular traffic, shall be removed
by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows. The Tree Conservator, or
his or her designate, may trim any such tree or shrub, or remove any such tree
or branch thereof, so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage
shall be eliminated.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.08 AMENDMENT.
   The Tree Board shall have the authority to modify, amend or extend the
arboricultural specifications and standards of practice of the city at any time
that experience indicates improved methods are more appropriate.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.09 TREE REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Establishment of program. There is hereby established a voluntary tree
replacement program for the purpose of providing for the replacement of trees
on municipal property, and for the payment of the cost thereof in equal
portions by the city and the owner or owners of properties desiring to
participate in the program. The scope of the program shall be subject to
available funding.
   (B)   Administration of program. The Tree Conservator, or his or her agent,
shall administer the tree replacement program. He or she may determine which
individual parcels in the city are in need of replacement trees under the
program, and shall establish priorities for accomplishing the same. He or she
may notify the owner or owners of property abutting the city parkways
determined to be in need of new or replacement trees under the program, and
invite their participation.
   (C)   Implementation of program. When the Tree Conservator and the City Tree
Board have determined that there are sufficient portions of the city requiring
replacement trees under the program, they shall obtain cost estimates, notify
each participating property owner of his or her proportionate share of such
cost, and request deposits of such amounts to be made with the City Collector.
When such deposits have been made, the Tree Conservator shall proceed to have
the tree replacement work completed. Any excess in the amount of the deposits
over actual cost of the replacement shall be refunded pro rata to the
participants; any deficiency in the amount of such deposits, as related to the
actual cost of the work, shall be collected from each participant in the same
pro rata manner.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.10 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve,
prune, remove, cut above ground or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or
city-owned property without first filing an application and procuring a permit
from the Tree Conservator. The person receiving the permit shall abide by the
standards established by the city.
      (2)   Application for permit. Application for permit must be made at the
city office not less than 15 days in advance of the time the work is to be
performed.
      (3)   Application data. The application required herein shall state the
number and kind of trees to be trimmed, sprayed, preserved or removed; the kind
of treatment to be administered; the kind and condition of nearest trees upon
the adjoining properties, and such other information as the Tree Conservator,
or his or her agent, shall find reasonably necessary.
      (4)   Standards of issuance. The Tree Conservator shall issue the permit
provided for herein, if, in his or her judgement, the proposed work is
desirable and the proposed method and workmanship thereof are of satisfactory
nature. Any permit granted shall contain a definite date of expiration. The
work shall be completed in the time allowed on the permit and in the manner as
therein described. Any permit shall be void if its terms are violated.
      (5)   Notice of completion. Notice of completion shall be given within
five days to the Tree Conservator, or his or her agent, for inspection.
   (B)   Planting.
      (1)   Application data. The application required herein shall state the
number of trees to be set out, the location, grade, species, cultivar or
variety of each tree, and such other information as the Tree Conservator, or
his or her agent, shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   Improper planting. Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be lawful for the Tree
Conservator, or his or her agent, to remove or cause removal of the same, and
the cost thereof assessed to the owner.
   (C)   Maintenance. The application required herein shall state the number
and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned or otherwise preserved,
the kind of treatment to be administered, the composition of the spray material
to be applied, and such other information as the Tree Conservator shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.
   (D)   Removal, replanting and replacement.
      (1)   Replacement by city. Whenever it is necessary to remove a tree or
trees from a parkway in connection with the re-pavement of an existing sidewalk
or the paving or widening of the portion of a street or highway used for
vehicular traffic, the municipality shall replace same.
      (2)   Replacement by owner or contractor. No contractor or property owner
shall remove a tree from the parkway for the purpose of construction, or for
any other reason, without first filing an application and procuring a permit
from the Tree Conservator, or his or her delegate, and without replacing the
removed tree or trees in accordance with adopted city specifications. Such
replacement shall meet the standards of size, species and placement as provided
for in the permit issued by the Tree Conservator or his or her delegate. The
contractor or property owner shall bear all costs of removal and replacement.
      (3)   Community notification. Whenever it is necessary for the city to
remove a tree, painting an “X” on the tree to be removed shall provide
sufficient notice that this tree will be cut down. This marking on the tree to
be removed shall be painted upon the tree no later than three days before the
scheduled removal.
   (E)   Tree location. Any completed application to do work on a city tree
shall identify the location of the tree in accordance with the standards
established by the City Tree Board and the Tree Conservator.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.11 OBSTRUCTION; PRUNING.
   (A)   Duty to prune obstructions. It shall be the duty of any person owning
or occupying real property bordering on any street upon which property there
may be trees, to prune such trees in such manner that will not obstruct or
shade the street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks,
obstruct the vision of traffic signs or obstruct the view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof
shall be seven feet over sidewalks, 14 feet over all streets where trucks are
prohibited, and 16 feet on all other streets.
   (B)   Notice to prune. Should any person owning real property bordering on
any street fail to prune trees located on private property as hereinabove
provided, the Tree Conservator, or his or her agent, shall order that person,
within ten days after receipt of written notice, to so prune such trees.
   (C)   Order required. The order required herein shall be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the property owner.
   (D)   Failure to comply.  When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the
municipality to prune such trees, and the cost thereof shall be assessed to the
owner.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.12 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels,
trenches, or lay any drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree,
without first obtaining a written permit from the Tree Conservator or his or
her agent.
   (B)   Augering.  Open trenching in the root zone of a tree is prohibited
except when the trenching falls outside the critical root zone. See Illinois
Urban Manual Practice Standard attached to Ordinance 1558. If deemed necessary
by the Tree Conservator or the Tree Board, all trees on any street or other
publicly owned property near any excavation or construction of any building,
structure or street work, shall be guarded with a good, substantial fence,
frame or box, not less than four feet high and eight feet square, or at a
distance in feet from the tree equal to one-half the diameter of the trunk in
inches (whichever is less). All building material, dirt or other debris shall
be kept outside of the barrier.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.13 HIGH-RISK TREES.
   The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the city, upon which any tree is
growing, shall trim, or cause to be trimmed, the branches thereof so that they
pose no hazard to any individual’s health and safety. When any such tree is
dead, the property owner shall remove the same so that it will pose no hazard
to any individual’s health or safety. Any tree at risk is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance; failure to correct this condition within 15 days after
written notice from the Tree Conservator, or his or her agent, shall be in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.14 TRIMMING OF TREES FOR PROTECTION OF WIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the various utility companies to maintain trees in
such a manner that they do not interfere with service or create a hazard to
life, health or personal property. All utility companies will adhere to the
International Society of Arboriculture standard on pruning, which is on file at
City Hall.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
§ 99.15 PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public place in
the municipality, any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials that may
impede the free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of any tree
growing herein, except by written permit of the Tree Conservator or his or her
agent.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided for by §
10.99 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Pittsfield. Each day shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1426, passed 11-16-10; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 1-19-16)
CHAPTER 100: LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
Section
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Declaration
   
100.03   Curfew authorized
   
100.04   Orders authorized
   
100.05   Duration
   
100.06   Notice
   
100.07   Violations
   
100.08   Effect on other ordinances
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
   EMERGENCY. 
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of the actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any natural disaster, epidemic, or man made calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or imminent threat of any of those events within corporate limits of
the city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.02 DECLARATION.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
100.01 exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a Local
State of Emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath,
setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature
of the emergency and declaring that a Local State of Emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the Municipal Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.03 CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   After proclamation of a Local State of Emergency by the Mayor, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to
the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.04 ORDERS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   After the proclamation of a Local State of Emergency, the Mayor may
also, in the interest of the public safety and welfare, and to address the
issues caused or threatened by the emergency, take any or all of the following
actions by executive order during the State of Emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
      (2)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
      (3)   In the event the Local State of Emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
Local State of Emergency;
      (4)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns
and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle; and/or
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.05 DURATION.
   The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
30 days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation
of the Mayor, or his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the
civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor, or his or her emergency successor,
shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at the end of
each 30 day period during the time said emergency exists.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.06 NOTICE.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Municipal Clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the city, and shall cause at least four
copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any
curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the city hall, the
police station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the city and shall
be punished as provided by § 130.99 of this code.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
§ 100.08 EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code, giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1670, passed 12-1-20)
CHAPTER 101: FOWL
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Permissible zones
   
101.03   Permitted number of chickens
   
101.04   Coop and run requirements
   
101.05   Health and safety
   
101.06   Permits and inspections
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHICKEN. Refers to domesticated Gallus, commonly kept for egg production or
as pets.
   OWNER. Refers to any person, household, or entity responsible for the care
and maintenance of chickens.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.02 PERMISSIBLE ZONES.
   (A)   Chickens may be kept within city limits in residential zones, subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Chickens are not allowed in commercial or industrial zones.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.03 PERMITTED NUMBER OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   A maximum of 12 chickens per residential property is allowed.
   (B)   No roosters are permitted within city limits.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.04 COOP AND RUN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Chicken coops must be well-maintained, secure, and designed to provide
adequate shelter and protection from predators.
   (B)   Coops must be located at least six feet from property lines.
   (C)   Chicken runs must be adequately fenced to prevent chickens from
roaming freely.
   (D)   Coops and runs must be kept clean and free from odors and waste
buildup.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.05 HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Chickens must receive proper care, nutrition, and medical attention as
needed.
   (B)   Proper waste disposal methods for chicken litter must be employed to
prevent environmental contamination.
   (C)   Chickens should not be a nuisance to neighbors due to noise, odor, or
other disturbances.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.06 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   The city may conduct periodic inspections to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter may result in fines, penalties, or the
revocation of chicken keeping privileges.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750, for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1725, passed 1-2-24)
CHAPTER 102: BRUSH YARD PERMIT
Section
   
102.01   Disposal of trees, tree limbs, stumps and brush
§ 102.01 DISPOSAL OF TREES, TREE LIMBS, STUMPS AND BRUSH.
   (A)   No person, firm or entity shall dispose, dump or deposit any tree,
bush, shrub, tree limb, tree trunk, stump or brush upon any property of the
city, including the city brush yard, except in accordance with rules and
regulations set forth herein.
   (B)   Any person, firm or entity working for profit in the business of tree
trimming desiring to dispose of trees, bushes, shrubs tree limbs, stumps, tree
trunks, or brush shall first obtain an annual permit from the City Clerk's
Office and pay the fee set forth below at Pittsfield City Hall.
   (C)   Each disposal permit shall be signed by the authorized person for the
person, firm, or entity conducting the disposal activity, who shall, in
addition to the firm or entity, be individually responsible for compliance with
all rules and regulations governing disposal.
   (D)   Each disposal permit shall contain the following information for each
person, firm, or entity seeking a disposal permit:
      (1)   Name and name of responsible person if a firm or other entity;
      (2)   Physical address of such person, firm, or entity (no post office
boxes);
      (3)   Telephone number at which the person, firm or entity may be reached
during daytime hours;
      (4)   Any additional information required by the City Clerk.
   (E)   The annual permit fee to be charged for each permit for disposal of
trees, bushes, shrubs, tree limbs, tree trunks, stumps, or other brush shall be
$1,000. Permits shall be issued on the first day of May of each year and shall
expire on the last day of April of the following year.
   (F)   Any person, firm or entity reasonably believed to have violated any
rule or regulation contained herein or any directive provided by the Public
Works Director, or her or his designee, shall have their privilege to obtain
disposal permits and to dump or dispose, as provided herein, suspended for up
to 30 days. The Public Works Director shall provide written notice of such
suspension.
   (G)   Any person, firm or entity reasonably believed to have violated any
rule or regulation contained herein on two or more occasions shall be
permanently barred from dumping or disposing of trees, bushes, shrubs, tree
limbs, tree trunks, stumps and brush at the city brush yard. Written notice of
debarment shall be issued by the Mayor, Chief of Police or their designee.
   (H)   Nothing in this section is intended to prevent or prohibit a city
resident from depositing trees, shrubs, limbs or brush cut or trimmed by the
resident from his or her own property at the city brush yard or on the right-
of-way adjoining the property for pick up by city personnel.
(Ord. 1729, passed 4-16-24)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   BILLIARD HALLS
      
112.   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
      
113.   SOLICITORS
      
114.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
115.   RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
      
116.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
      
117.   FOOD TRUCKS
      
118.   MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Construction
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Hours of operation
   
110.04   Persons to whom alcoholic liquor not to be sold or delivered
   
110.05   License required; classes of licenses
   
110.06   Minors prohibited
   
110.07   Separate license required for each class and for each location
   
110.08   Application
   
110.09   Insurance
   
110.10   Fees and duration of license validity
   
110.11   Location for which licenses may be issued
   
110.12   [Reserved]
   
110.13   Posting; revocation or suspension
   
110.14   Special events licenses
   
110.15   Beer gardens
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health,
safety, and welfare of the people of the city shall be protected and temperance
and the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted by
sound and careful control and regulation of the sale and distribution of
alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, including among
other things beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Every establishment or building, or part of an establishment
or building as the case may be, wherein the game of bowling, played with
composition balls and ten wooden pins, is played.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its
members and their guests; and provided further that its affairs and management
are conducted by a board of directors,  executive committee, or similar body
chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any
officer, agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly
receives in the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the
distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club
or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be
fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of
directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   GOLF COURSE. An area laid out for golf, having nine or 18 holes, each with a
tee, fairway, green, and one or more natural or artificial hazards covering a
cumulative distance of not less than 1,000 yards, and played with a number of
golf clubs, including woods, irons and a putter.
   MOBILE ALCOHOL TRUCK. A vehicle or trailer equipped with the necessary
facilities to store, serve and sell alcoholic beverages for on-site
consumption.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE.  Any bottle, jug, can, barrel, keg or other receptacle or
container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled by the
manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor.
   PACKAGE SALES. Any sale of alcoholic liquor in its original package for
consumption off the premises.
   RESORT. An establishment designed to attract and accommodate tourists and
visitors to resort area or the community for recreational, entertainment and
lodging purposes catering to vacationers, with lodging facilities with at least
25 motel rooms or camps sites located on the premises, and the primary business
of the establishment is not the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   RESTAURANT.  Any public place having regular meals, which is kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are
served and sold, and where meals are actually and regularly served and sold,
such place being provided with adequate and separate sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its
guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and  not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, including and meaning all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. Refer to and mean sales for use or consumption and
not for resale in any form.
   SELL or TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent
to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including beverages when
fortified by the addition of alcohol as defined above.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 4-3-07; Am. Ord. 1504, passed
11-5-13; Am. Ord. 1722, passed 11-7-23; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24)
§ 110.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person, partnership, or corporation licensed to sell alcoholic liquor of
any kind under this chapter shall permit the establishment to sell alcoholic
liquor after the hour of 12:00 midnight on Sunday through Saturday or prior to
the hour of 7:00 o'clock a.m. on Monday through Sunday. Daily hours of
operation on Sunday through Saturday from 7:00 o'clock a.m. to 12:00 midnight.
The holder of a Class A, F, G or W license shall not permit any patron to
remain on any premises licensed for sale of alcoholic liquor after the hour of
12:00 midnight Sunday through Saturday and the doors leading to and from any
such premises shall be closed promptly at 12:00 midnight Sunday through
Saturday and shall remain closed and locked during the time the business of
selling alcoholic liquor is not permitted to be transacted on such premises,
provided that, in the case of any bowling alley or resort, only the doors to
that room or area of the premises specifically designed or designated for the
sale of alcoholic liquor need to be locked between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 7:00 o'clock a.m. Sunday through Saturday, and no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold upon any portion of the premises during those hours, nor shall alcoholic
liquor be consumed or permitted to be consumed upon any portion of the premises
during the prohibited hours. The permitted hours of operation may be
temporarily amended or extended by resolution of the City Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 4-3-07; Am. Ord. 1371, passed
1-15-08; Am. Ord. 1682, passed 7-6-21; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.04 PERSONS TO WHOM ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR NOT TO BE SOLD OR DELIVERED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his or her agents or
employees to sell or give, or knowingly permit anyone else to give within the
premises any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   No licensee, or his or her agents or employees, shall sell, give, or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or person who appears to be
intoxicated.
   (C)   No licensee, or his or her agents or employees, shall sell, give, or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any habitual drunkard, spendthrift, or insane,
feebleminded or distracted person or to any person who is known to be an object
of charity or who is known to be supported by any charitable association or
institution or any related commission or organization.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Requirement. No person, partnership, or corporation shall sell at
retail or have in its possession and offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor
within the city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided by this
chapter.
   (B)   Violation. No person, partnership, or corporation which operates a
business for a pecuniary profit shall permit the consumption of alcoholic
liquor by its customers on its premises without first obtaining a license
therefor as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   Classes of licenses. Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall
have the following classifications and shall authorize the activities
designated:
      (1)   A Class A (Tavern) license shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises and to make package sales at
retail of alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   A Class C (Convenience/Grocery Store) license shall entitle a
retailer to make package sales at retail of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   A Class D (Restaurant) license shall entitle the owner or
proprietor of a restaurant to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption in the
restaurant permanently occupied.
      (4)   A Class E (Club) license shall entitle any club to sell alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises and to make package sales to its members
and guests at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises permanently occupied
by the club.
      (5)   A Class F (Resort) license shall be a license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor by a resort, as defined in §
110.02. A resort license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor
for consumption on premises or to make package sales during the hours as
specified in §
110.03. The holder of the Class Resort license shall also be allowed to sell
alcoholic beverages in the original container to persons who are of the age of
21 years or older for the purpose of consuming such alcoholic beverages within
motel room or camp site. Further, it is the responsibility of the resort
operator to obtain a written statement from the person who is a guest of the
resort that no persons under the age of 21 will consume any alcoholic beverages
on premises.
      (6)   A Class G (Bowling Alley) license shall entitle the owner or
proprietor of a bowling alley to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption in the
bowling alley occupied as such and to make package sales at retail of alcoholic
liquors, which license shall entitle the owner or proprietor to sell any
alcoholic liquor only in that room or portion of the premises or building
specifically designed and designated for the sale of alcoholic liquor.
      (7)   A Class H (Golf Course) license may sell alcoholic beverages, which
may only be sold to members and guests, and must be consumed on the premises of
the golf course.
      (8)   A Class P (Pour) license shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the portion of the premises reserved for
operation of the State of Illinois licensed gaming parlor. No person under 21
years of age is allowed in the area of the gaming parlor.
      (9)   Class M (Mobile Alcohol Truck). That license shall entitle the
licensee to sell alcoholic beverages from a mobile alcohol truck.
         (a)   License requirements. Any individual or entity seeking to
operate a mobile alcohol truck within the jurisdiction of City of Pittsfield
shall obtain a license from the City of Pittsfield, subject to the following
requirements: a. Applicant must be at least 21 years of age. b. Applicant must
provide proof of liability insurance coverage for the mobile alcohol truck. c.
Applicant must obtain all necessary permits and approvals as required by other
applicable local, state, and federal regulations. d. Applicant must pay the
prescribed license fee as determined by the City of Pittsfield. e. The license
must be prominently displayed on the mobile alcohol truck at all times during
operation.
         (b)   Operational requirements. Mobile alcohol trucks shall only
operate within designated areas as approved by the City of Pittsfield. Hours of
operation for mobile alcohol trucks shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
subject to the discretion of the City of Pittsfield Liquor Control Commissioner
Licensees shall comply with all applicable health and safety regulations,
including proper food handling and sanitation practices. Sales to and
consumption of alcoholic beverages shall only be permitted within designated
areas approved by the City of Pittsfield. Licensees shall ensure the
responsible service of alcoholic beverages and shall not serve individuals who
are visibly intoxicated or under the legal drinking age. Mobile alcohol trucks
shall comply with noise regulations and maintain a reasonable volume of
amplified sound. Adequate waste disposal facilities shall be provided on the
mobile alcohol truck premises to maintain cleanliness and prevent littering.
         (c)   The City of Pittsfield shall have the power to inspect mobile
alcohol trucks to ensure compliance with this chapter and any other applicable
regulations.
         (d)   Non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter may result in
penalties, fines, suspension, or revocation of the mobile alcohol truck
license, as determined by the City of Pittsfield.
         (e)   The City of Pittsfield reserves the right to modify or revoke
licenses, impose additional conditions, or suspend operations if deemed
necessary in the interest of the public safety or welfare.
      (10)   A Class W (Winery) license shall entitle the owner or proprietor
of a winery to sell wine and beer for consumption on the premises and to make
package sales at retail of wine and beer.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 4-3-07; Am. Ord. 1371, passed
1-15-08; Am. Ord. 1504, passed 11-5-13; Am. Ord. 1577, passed 3-21-17; Am. Ord.
1722, passed 11-7-23; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The holder of a Class A license shall not permit persons under the age
of 21 on the premises, except with the prior, written consent of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner and for good cause shown.
   (B)   The holder of Class G license shall not permit persons under the age
of 21 in the room or area designated for the sale of alcoholic liquor, except
with the prior written consent of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and for
good cause shown.
   (C)   It shall be illegal for any person under the age of 21 to go upon or
remain upon the premises of the holder of a Class A license or that portion of
the premises of the holder of a Class G license designed for the sale of
alcoholic liquor, except with the prior written consent of the Local Liquor
Commissioner and for good cause shown.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH CLASS AND FOR EACH LOCATION.
   Separate application shall be filed for each separate class of license
required by this chapter by any applicant desiring to carry on more than one
licensed business. A separate license sell be obtained by any applicant
desiring to carry on a licensed business at more than one location for each
location.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license required by this chapter shall make a
sworn, written application therefor to the Mayor as Liquor Control
Commissioner. Each application shall contain the following information with
respect to the applicant:
      (1)   The name and the business and residence addresses of the applicant,
and if the applicant is a corporation, the state of incorporation, and if not
Illinois, then whether or not the applicant is licensed to transact business in
Illinois;
      (2)   If the applicant is not a corporation, that the applicant is a
citizen of the United States;
      (3)   If the applicant is not a corporation, the applicant's place of
birth and, if a naturalized citizen, the date and place of naturalization;
      (4)   That the applicant has never been convicted of a felony;
      (5)   That the applicant has never been convicted of being the keeper of
a house of ill-fame, of pandering, or of any other crime or misdemeanor opposed
to decency or morality;
      (6)   That the applicant is not, at the time of making the application,
connected with a house of ill-fame;
      (7)   That a license issued to the applicant under this chapter has not
been revoked or suspended;
      (8)   If the applicant is applying for a Class A license, the location
where the applicant proposes to engage in the business for which the
application is submitted, and whether or not the proposed location is within
100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons, or
for war veterans, their wives, or children, or of any military or naval
station;
      (9)   The type of business to be carried on and the date the business was
established;
      (10)   Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in the place of
business if the license is issued;
      (11)   Whether alcoholic liquor will be sold or delivered outside of any
building or structure on the premises;
      (12)   Whether the applicant owns the premises for which the license is
sought or, if he does not, the name of his or her landlord and the period of
the lease;
      (13)   Whether any manufacturer, importer, distributor, or wholesaler of
alcoholic liquor or any stockholder or officer of any corporation engaged in
any such business has paid, given, or loaned money to the applicant, or given,
leased, or permitted the use of anything of value by the applicant or extended
credit to the applicant;
      (14)   The business or businesses in which the applicant has been engaged
for the last five years preceding the filing of the application;
      (15)   That the applicant agrees not to violate any ordinance of the city
or any law of the United States or of the state in the conduct of the business,
and that in the event such promise is broken or in the event any statement
contained in the application is not true, the license applied for may be
immediately suspended or revoked.
   (B)   If the applicant for a license under this section is not a
corporation, the applicant shall be required to show satisfactorily that he or
she is of good moral character and that he or she is a bona fide resident of
the city.
   (C)   All partners shall sign the application if the applicant is a
partnership. All corporate officers shall sign and indicate their official
positions if the applicant is a corporation.
   (D)   The information requested in the application shall be furnished for
each person signing the application who has an ownership interest in excess of
25%.
   (E)   The Mayor and/or the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the
authority to grant or deny the application.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1683, passed 7-6-21; Am. Ord. 1730, passed
4-16-24)
§ 110.09 INSURANCE.
   At the time each application for a liquor license is filed, the applicant
shall provide proof of insurance for the maximum extent of liability under ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-21 of the state Liquor Control Act, now in force or as
hereafter amended for the duration of the license to be issued, and such policy
shall contain a provision that the city be notified by the insurance carrier in
the event of cancellation or lapse of coverage.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24)
§ 110.10 FEES AND DURATION OF LICENSE VALIDITY.
   (A)   The fees for licenses required by this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a Class A license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (2)   For a Class C license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (3)   For a Class D license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (4)   For a Class E license, the fee shall be $200 per annum.
      (5)   For a Class F license, the fee shall be $800 per annum.
      (6)   For a Class G license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (7)   For a Class H license, the fee shall be $200 per annum.
      (8)   For a Class P license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (9)   For a Class W license, the fee shall be $600 per annum.
      (10)   For a Class M License the fee shall be $600 per annum.
   (B)   Licenses shall be purchased for a six-month period, from the first day
of January to the last day of June and from the first day of July to the last
day of December of any calendar year, but there shall be no further fractional
division of the license fee payable under this section. All licenses shall be
payable in advance at the time the license is issued or renewed.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 4-3-07; Am. Ord. 1371, passed
1-15-08; Am. Ord. 1722, passed 11-7-23; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24)
§ 110.11 LOCATION FOR WHICH LICENSES MAY BE ISSUED.
   No license may be issued under this chapter except for locations within the
city and in B-2 or B-3 zoning districts.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24)
§ 110.12 [RESERVED].
§ 110.13 POSTING; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Posting. Each licensee shall cause his or her license pursuant to this
chapter to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
   (B)   Revocation or suspension; grounds. Any license issued pursuant to this
chapter may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor as Local Liquor Control
Commissioner for any one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   A violation of the laws of the United States relating to the sale
of alcoholic liquor, any law of the state, or any of the provisions of this
chapter;
      (2)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for a license;
      (3)   The permitting of any unlawful, disorderly, or immoral practices
upon the licensed premises;
      (4)   Failure to maintain or keep in effect insurance for dram shop
liability; or
      (5)   Whenever the continued operation of the licensed premises is
detrimental or injurious to the health, welfare, or safety of the general
public.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-2-92; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSES.
   (A)   Class S "Special Events." A special event license shall permit the
sale and offer for sale at resale, alcoholic liquors for use or consumption,
but not for resale in any form and only at the location and on the specific,
limited, dates designated for the special event in the license. A special event
license shall be for wine and/or beer only.
   (B)   There shall be two categories of special events licenses as follows.
      (1)   Class S-1: "Special Event Not-For-Profit."
         (a)   For purposes hereof, "Special Event Not-For-Profit" means an
event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political, civic or religious or
non-profit organization.
         (b)   An applicant for a special event not-for-profit retailer license
must furnish with the application:
            1.   A resale number issued under § 2c of the Illinois Retailers's
Occupation Tax Act or evidence that the applicant is registered under § 2a of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act;
            2.   A current, valid exemption identification number issued under
§ 1g of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and a certification to the Mayor
that the purchase of alcoholic liquors will be a tax-exempt purchase; or
            3.   A statement that the applicant is not registered under § 2a of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, does not hold a resale number under § 2a of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act and does not hold an exemption number under §
g of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, in which event the Mayor shall set
forth on the special event retailer's license to that effect.
      (2)   Class 5-2: "Special Event (for Profit)." For purposes hereof, a
"Special Event (for Profit)" license means a license issued for a special event
for any person, firm, business or entity other than a not-for-profit entity, as
defined above.
   (C)   In addition to such other requirement as may be hereafter be
specified, a Class 5 license shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The application for the special event license shall identify the
purpose of the special event, the location where the alcoholic liquor is to be
distributed for use of consumption, the duration for which the license is
sought and other information as is required by City Ordinance.
      (2)   A special event license may also be issued to allow sales and
consumption of alcoholic beverages out-of-doors on the public right-of-way.
This may also be allowed only with specific approval of the Mayor and/or Local
Liquor Control Commissioner under the guidelines approved by the City Council
in advance of the date of the license.
      (3)   The fee for such license shall be $50 per day. A special event
license may be issued for not more than three consecutive days and not more
than three licenses annually.
      (4)   Each application must be accompanied by proof of proper insurance.
      (5)   A special event license shall not be issued to any person, firm or
corporation holding a city liquor license.
      (6)   No special event licensee shall be issued any other license for 30
days after the expiration of the event.
      (7)   The city Mayor and Liquor Commissioner shall have authority to
grant or deny the application.
      (8)   The city Mayor and Liquor Commissioner shall have authority to
grant or deny any special use permit on any property owned by the City of
Pittsfield provided that the alcoholic liquor is sold only at an event
authorized by the City Council and said permit is issued for one day or less.
(Ord. 1407, passed 9-15-09; Am. Ord. 1683, passed 7-6-21; Am. Ord. 1730, passed
4-16-24)
§ 110.15 BEER GARDENS.
   (A)   Title and purpose. This subchapter is entitled "Beer Garden
Ordinance". The purpose of this subchapter is as follows: To promote the
safety, health and general welfare by creating certain conditions and
restrictions on, and to provide for the licensing and operation of, beer
gardens in the City of Pittsfield.
   (B)   License required. No person shall hereafter keep, maintain, conduct or
operate any Beer Garden as defined in division (B) of this section without
first obtaining a beer garden license.
   (C)   Definition. A BEER GARDEN is defined as an open air, roofed or
unroofed area adjacent to or accessory to a Class A, Class D, Class For Class G
intoxicating liquor and/or fermented malt beverage licensed premises, where
beer and other alcoholic beverages are served or consumed.
      (1)   A permanent fence, not less than six feet in height (unless
variance is granted), designed with the approval of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, must enclose the whole area in which alcoholic liquors are
served, poured, mixed or consumed (must be in conformance with the zoning
ordinance).
      (2)   Access is not permitted to the permanent fenced-in area in which
liquor is to be poured, mixed, served or consumed through any way except
through the permanent structure on the premises. Each enclosed area shall have
at least one emergency exit that shall only be used for emergency and not as a
normal exit of the premises.
      (3)   No excessive music of any kind is played or broadcasted outside
which disturbs the neighborhood in any manner.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that the
noises are emitted from the beer garden will not disturb the neighborhood in
any way.
      (5)   Any violation of these conditions shall constitute a violation of
this Code.
   (D)   License fee. The annual fee for a beer garden license shall be $200
(non prorated) and every license shall be renewed by or terminated on the 31st
day of December in conjunction with the Class A, D, For G license.
   (E)   Application. Application for a beer garden license shall be made on a
form developed by the Pittsfield City Clerk and shall be submitted at least 15
days prior to action by the City Council. Applications must include a detailed
diagram of the beer garden area.
   (F)   Restrictions. No beer garden shall be permitted within 200 feet of
land zoned for human residence unless approved by all owners of residential
property within 200 feet and the City Council by two-thirds vote. Other than
the initial application, persons renewing a beer garden license shall not be
required to obtain approval by all the owners of residential property within
200 feet, except if the license holder has been convicted of a violation of the
City of Pittsfield Municipal Code or state law pertaining to alcohol beverage
laws or beer garden regulations whichever occur prior to renewal.
   (G)   Conditions. No beer garden shall be permitted, maintained, or operated
except on conformity of the following regulations:
      (1)   A description of the beer garden area shall be included in the
application and license for Class A, D, For G intoxicating liquor and/or
fermented malt beverage licensed premises.
      (2)   The hours of operation of the beer garden shall be the same hours
as the Class A, Class D, Class F or Class G license holder as set forth in
Title 11, §
110.03 of the City of Pittsfield, Illinois, Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   A beer garden license will be granted for the common use of the
beer garden by multiple holders of liquor licenses, provided that the multiple
holders are owned by the same individuals who are affiliated with the
corporation or business entities owned by the same individual.
      (4)   If the common ownership of the beer garden area ceases a separate
permit will be required for a beer garden to the licensed premises.
   (H)   Discretion. The City Council shall have discretion to refuse the
granting of any license or transfer thereof if, in its judgment, the granting
or transfer of such license shall be against the public interest, either
because of the unsuitability of the location, undesirability or unreliability
of the applicant or applicant's manager or because of the failure of applicant
or applicant's manager to observe the provisions of the City of Pittsfield
Ordinances in the prior conduct of a cabaret, dance hall, tavern, beer garden
or other similar place.
   (I)   Penalties. Any violations of this subchapter may result in the
suspension or revocation of any Class A, D, For G intoxicating liquor and/or
fermented malt liquor beverage license for such premises.
(Ord. 1514, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 1516, passed 7-1-14; Am. Ord. 1546, passed
6-16-15; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 4-16-24) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, or corporation which violates any provision
of this chapter for which no other specific penalty is provided shall be
subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, or corporation which violates the provisions
of §
110.05 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000
for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Each occurrence of a violation of §
110.06 shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter, and, upon
conviction, shall subject the license holder or the person so violating the
provision of this section to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750.
   (D)   Any person who violates, disobeys or refuses to comply with or who
resists the enforcement of any provisions of §
110.15 shall, upon conviction, be subject to forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Am. Ord. 1514, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 1516, passed 7-1-14; Am. Ord. 1730,
passed 4-16-24)
CHAPTER 111: BILLIARD HALLS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Hours of operation
   
111.02   Minors
Licenses
   
111.10   Required
   
111.11   Fees
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation for any billiard or pool hall licensed to be operated
in the city shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. (midnight) seven days
per week. All patrons shall leave the establishment by 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
each day. The establishment shall be locked from 12:00 a.m. (midnight) to 7:00
a.m. each day.
('74 Code, § 4-19) (Ord. 1072, passed 10-4-88) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 MINORS.
   Minors under the age of 16 years shall, under no circumstances, frequent,
loiter, enter or remain in any hall licensed under this chapter at any time
when not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. It shall be unlawful for
the proprietor of any hall so licensed to allow or permit any such minor to
frequent, loiter or remain in the hall in violation of this section.
('74 Code, § 4-20) (Ord. 1072, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 11-15-88)
Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSES
§ 111.10 REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct three or
more billiard, pool, bagatelle, or pigeonhole tables on one premises open to
the public without first having obtained a license therefor as herein required,
provided, however, that the holder of any current and valid liquor license
issued by the city shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. All
applications for licenses shall state thereon the intended location of the
place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
('74 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. 1072, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 1104, passed 4-21-92)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 FEES.
   The annual fee for the license required by §
111.10 shall be $15 for the first table and $7 for each additional table.
('74 Code, § 4-18) (Ord. 1072, passed 10-4-88) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the right to revoke any license issued hereunder
for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750
for each offense.
('74 Code, § 4-21) (Ord. 1072, passed 10-4-88)
CHAPTER 112: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Installations
   
112.03   Affixing name
Registration
   
112.10   Required
   
112.11   Fee
   
112.12   Registration period
   
112.13   Bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of installing or
altering by contract electrical equipment for the use of electricity for light,
heat or power. ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR shall not include the installing or
altering of:
      (1)   Radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and
signals; or
      (2)   Apparatus, conductors or other equipment installed for or by public
utilities, including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, for use in their operation as public utilities;
or
      (3)   Employees of an ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR to do or supervise work.
('74 Code, § 8-33) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
§ 112.02 INSTALLATIONS.
   No electrical installation shall be approved by the Electrical Inspector
unless it was installed by an electrical contractor registered as is required
by §
112.10.
('74 Code, § 8-38) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
§ 112.03 AFFIXING NAME.
   Any electrical contractor registered pursuant to this subchapter, upon the
completion of his or her work upon any premises in the city, shall affix his or
her name and address in a permanent manner upon the inside of the door of the
service entrance switch, at which time he or she may call for an inspection of
the work by the Electrical Inspector.
('74 Code, § 8-40) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
REGISTRATION
§ 112.10 REQUIRED.
   Every person who is not registered as an electrical contractor in another
municipality in the state shall register therefor with the City Clerk before
engaging in business in the city as an electrical contractor.
('74 Code, § 8-34) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
§ 112.11 FEE.
   the fee for registration of an electrical contractor, pursuant to this
subchapter, shall be established by the City Council from time to time.
('74 Code, § 8-35) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
§ 112.12 REGISTRATION PERIOD.
   The registration required by this subchapter shall be for the term of one
year and shall be renewed each succeeding year as long as the electrical
contractor shall be engaged in business in the city.
('74 Code, § 8-37) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
§ 112.13 BOND.
   Each applicant for registration as an electrical contractor shall, at the
time of applying for registration, post a good and sufficient bond in a penal
sum as shall be established by the City Council from time to time, payable to
the city. The bond shall be conditioned upon the full compliance by the
applicant of all of the terms and conditions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 8-36) (Ord. 572, passed 8-21-56)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Policy
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Notice
   
113.04   Leaving premises
   
113.05   Hours of operation
   
113.06   Rescinding contracts
Certificate of Registration
   
113.15   Application
   
113.16   Fee
   
113.17   Fingerprinting
   
113.18    Ineligibility
   
113.19   Issuance; denial
   
113.20   Expiration
   
113.21   Revocation
   
113.22   Records
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared the policy of the city that the occupants of each
residence in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors,
either registered or unregistered, shall or shall not be invited into their
residences.
('74 Code, § 15-12)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR . Any person who has obtained a valid Certificate of
Registration, as provided in the following subchapter, and who has the
certificate in his or her possession while soliciting.
   RESIDENCE . Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING . Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs or services of any kind for any consideration;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication;
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project;
      (5)   Selling goods or services door to door or peddling goods or
services; and
      (6)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support of any person other than a charitable or
nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project.
   SOLICITOR. A person engaged in the practice of soliciting. SOLICITORS shall
be divided into the following classes:
      (1)   Class A. Solicitors who represent charitable or nonprofit
organization which are named on a list of the organizations on file in the
office of the State Attorney General.
         (a)   Class A solicitors may engage in soliciting only between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   With the exception of this section, the provisions of
Chapter 113 shall not apply to Class A solicitors.
      (2)   Class B. Solicitors who are not Class A solicitors.
(‘74 Code, § 15-11) (Am. Ord. 1411, passed 12-1-09; Am. Ord. 1515, passed 6-17-
14)
§ 113.03 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice to solicitors. Each person desiring to secure the protection
intended to be provided by this chapter shall comply with the following
directions and notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation
to solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given in the following manner:
      (1)   A weatherproof card, approximately 3 x 4 inches in size, shall be
exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence, indicating the
determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows:
   ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN PITTSFIELD INVITED
   or, in the alternative:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided, at cost, by the Chief of
Police to persons requesting them.
      (3)   The card shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of the
determination by the occupant of the residence of the information contained
thereon.
('74 Code, § 15-13)
   (B)   Duty of solicitor to observe notice. It shall be the duty of every
solicitor upon going onto any premises in the city upon which a residence is
located, to first examine the notice provided for in this section, if any is
attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice. If the
notice states ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN PITTSFIELD INVITED, the solicitor
not possessing a valid certificate of registration issued pursuant to the
following subchapter shall depart immediately and peacefully from the premises.
If the notice states NO SOLICITORS INVITED, the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall depart immediately and peacefully from the premises.
('74 Code, § 15-14)
   (C)   Failure to observe notice. It is unlawful and shall constitute a
nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or
near any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract
the attention of the occupant of a residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
('74 Code, § 15-15)
§ 113.04 LEAVING PREMISES.
   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or
not, shall depart immediately and peacefully from the premises when requested
to do so by the occupant.
('74 Code, § 15-16)
§ 113.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether
registered pursuant to this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring
the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, to rap or
knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, prior
to 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or
on a state or national holiday.
('74 Code, § 15-17) (Am. Ord. 1355, passed 5-1-07)
§ 113.06 RESCINDING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Any contract entered into between an occupant of a residence in the
city and a solicitor acting in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared against the public policy of the city.
      (1)   The contract shall be voidable at the option of the occupant who
entered the contract within 60 days from the date of execution thereof.
      (2)   The contract shall be voided by the occupant sending a letter to
the solicitor or the solicitor's principal stating in substance that the
contract is voided or canceled and identifying the contract generally.
   (B)   No contract shall be voided unless the wares of the solicitor left
with the occupant are returned, unless the contract does not give the address
of the solicitor or the solicitor's principal.
('74 Code, § 15-18)
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
§ 113.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person, except a Class A solicitor, shall engage in residential
soliciting without first making written application and obtaining a Certificate
of Registration as provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   Application for a certificate required by this subchapter shall be
made upon a form provided by the Chief of Police and filed with the Chief. The
applicant shall state truthfully and in full the information requested on the
application, as follows:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant's present place of residence,
the length of residence at that address, the applicant's business address, if
other than the residence address, and the applicant's Social Security number;
      (2)   The address of the applicant’s place of residence during the past
three years, if other than his or her present address;
      (3)   The applicant's age and marital status; if married, the name of the
applicant's spouse;
      (4)   A physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   The name and address of the person, firm, corporation or
association by whom the applicant is employed or represents, and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
      (6)   The name and address of the applicant’s employer during the past
three years, if other than the present employer;
      (7)   A description, sufficient for identification, of the subject matter
of the soliciting the applicant will engage in;
      (8)   The period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
      (9)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this subchapter, if any;
      (10)   Whether a certificate issued to the applicant under this
subchapter has ever been revoked;
      (11)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of this or any other state or a federal law of the
United States; and
      (13)   Additional information the Chief may deem necessary to process the
application.
   (C)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
('74 Code, § 15-25)
§ 113.16 FEE.
   (A)   Each person required to obtain a Certificate of Registration as a
solicitor under this subchapter shall pay a fee to the city according to the
following schedule:
      (1)   $10 per day;
      (2)   $50 for six months; or
      (3)   $100 for 12 months.
   (B)   All fees shall be paid in advance at the time the application is made
for a certificate.
('74 Code, § 15-26) (Am. Ord. 1355, passed 5-1-07)
§ 113.17 FINGERPRINTING.
   The Chief of Police may require each applicant for a Certificate of
Registration to submit to fingerprinting by the Police Department.
('74 Code, § 15-27)
§ 113.18 INELIGIBILITY.
   No Certificate of Registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose certificate has
been revoked previously.
('74 Code, § 15-28)
§ 113.19 ISSUANCE; DENIAL.
   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application for a
Certificate of Registration and all information obtained relative thereto,
shall deny the application if the applicant does not possess the qualifications
for the certificate, and if issuance of a certificate to the applicant would
not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall
be made by the Chief upon the application of the denial of the application.
When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate shall be
issued forthwith.
('74 Code, § 15-29)
§ 113.20 EXPIRATION.
   The Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
expire on the date shown on the face of the certificate.
('74 Code, § 15-30)
§ 113.21 REVOCATION.
   Any Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be
revoked by the Chief of Police if its holder is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, has made a false material statement in the
application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate
under the terms of this subchapter. Immediately upon revocation, written notice
thereof shall be given by the Chief to the holder of the certificate in person
or by certified U.S. mail addressed to the holder's residence address set forth
in the application. The Certificate of Registration shall become null and void
immediately upon the giving of notice of revocation.
('74 Code, § 15-31)
§ 113.22 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in the Chief's office an accurate
record of each application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all Certificates of Registration
issued under the provisions of this chapter and of the denial of applications.
Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order, as filed,
and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified with
the duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
('74 Code, § 15-32)
CHAPTER 114: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Availability of vehicles to Police Department
Licenses
   
114.10   Required
   
114.11   Fee
   
114.12   Schedule of rates; proof of financial responsibility
   
114.13   Compliance with state laws
   
114.14   Determination of number by Traffic Committee
   
114.15   Revocation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 AVAILABILITY OF VEHICLES TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Any vehicle for persons used as a carrier for hire within the city shall, at
all times, be subject to the call of any Police Officer of the city without
charge to the Officer or the city, by Officers in the performance of their
duty.
('74 Code, § 29-19) (Ord. 384, passed 9-4-45)
LICENSES
§ 114.10 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a carrier of persons for
hire upon the streets of the city without first obtaining from the city a
license to operate as a carrier for hire. The license shall be obtained from
the City Clerk as prescribed in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 29-16) (Ord. 384, passed 9-4-45)
§ 114.11 FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a license required by §
114.10 shall be $5 per year, payable in advance.
      (1)   Payment of the fee shall entitle the licensee to operate as a
carrier of persons for hire on the streets of the city.
      (2)   The license fee of $5 shall entitle the licensee to operate not
more than three vehicles upon the streets of the city.
   (B)   In the event any licensee, operating as a carrier under this chapter,
desires to operate more than three vehicles to be used in the occupation of
carrying persons for hire, he or she shall pay an additional license fee of $5
for each vehicle added to be used above three.
('74 Code, § 29-17) (Ord. 783, passed 1-16-68)
§ 114.12 SCHEDULE OF RATES; PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No license required by §
114.10 shall be issued to any person until the applicant has filed with the
City Clerk a schedule of rates to be charged by the applicant.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person until the applicant has filed
with the Clerk proof of financial responsibility for any and all damage that
might be caused by the operation of the vehicles used in the occupation of
carrying persons for hire within the city. The proof of financial
responsibility shall be approved by the Traffic Committee of the City Council.
('74 Code, § 29-18) (Ord. 384, passed 9-445)
§ 114.13 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS.
   No license required by §
114.10 shall be issued to any person unless the operators of all vehicles owned
by the applicant are licensed chauffeurs, as provided by state law, and are
qualified to drive the vehicles as the qualifications are specified by the
statutes.
('74 Code, § 29-21) (Ord. 384, passed 9-4-45)
§ 114.14 DETERMINATION OF NUMBER BY TRAFFIC COMMITTEE.
   The Traffic Committee of the City Council shall have the power to designate
the number of licensees operating as carriers of persons for hire within the
city for any specific period of time.
('74 Code, § 29-20) (Ord. 384, passed 9-4-45)
§ 114.15 REVOCATION.
   Any person licensed pursuant to §
114.10 shall obey all provisions of Title VII regulating traffic upon the city
streets. Any license may be revoked by the Traffic Committee of the City
Council for failure on the part of the licensee to obey all provisions of that
title regulating traffic upon the streets.
('74 Code, § 29-22) (Ord. 384, passed 9-4-45)
CHAPTER 115: RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
Section
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Purpose
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   License requirements
   
115.05   License issuance
   
115.06   Operation and conduct
   
115.07   Documentation and record keeping
   
115.08   Enforcement
§ 115.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “City of
Pittsfield Raffle and Poker Run Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the conduct of
raffles and poker runs within the unincorporated areas of the county and within
the corporate limits of any municipality that is a party to any
intergovernmental cooperation agreement for raffle and poker run licenses with
the county.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of this chapter, the definitions hereunder shall be
observed and applied.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and/or businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   HARDSHIP. A situation in which an organization that has not been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license organizes for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or
disaster.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit in
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle or poker run.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles or poker runs,
less sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle or poker run.
   NON-PROFIT. Organized, operated and conducted on a not-for-profit basis
without personal profit to individual(s) or the organization.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
   POKER RUN. An event in which participants travel to multiple predetermined
locations, including a key location, to draw a playing card or equivalent item
at each location in order to assemble a facsimile of a poker hand or other
numeric score. POKER RUN includes dice runs, marble runs or other events where
the objective is to build the best hand or highest score by obtaining an item
at each location.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2 (b) of the Criminal Code of
2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b), conducted by an organization licensed
under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15 (Raffles and Poker Runs Act), in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated as the
winning chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS ORGANIZATION. Any association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle or poker run as
outlined in this chapter shall submit a Raffle/Poker Run Application using the
form provided by the City Clerk. Applications must be submitted to the City
Clerk at least five days prior to conducting a raffle or poker run, and prior
to selling tickets or chances for a raffle. Completion of an application does
not guarantee approval or issuance of a raffle/poker run license.
      (1)   Raffle. Application forms shall be furnished by the raffle
licensing agent and filed with same. The application shall show the following:
         (a)   The name and address and type of organization;
         (b)   The length of existence of the organization and, if
incorporated, the date and state of incorporation;
         (c)   The name, address, telephone number, social security number and
date of birth of the presiding officer, secretary and raffle manager of the
applicant;
         (d)   The dates, times and locations at which winning chances will be
determined;
         (e)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of
the applicant organization, signed by the manager;
         (f)   The purpose for which the raffle is being conducted.
      (2)   Poker run. Any person seeking to conduct or operate a poker run
shall file an application therefor with the city clerk on forms provided by the
city clerk for each event. Said application shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name, address and type of organization;
         (b)   The length of existence of the organization and, if
incorporated, the date and state of incorporation;
         (c)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of any
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the poker run;
         (d)   The time period during with the poker run will be conducted;
         (e)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of
the applicant organization, signed by the manager;
         (f)   The purpose for which the poker run is being conducted.
   (B)   An organization may appeal license decisions in writing within ten
business days of decision by submitting notice of appeal to the City Clerk’s
Office.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization or other entity to conduct or operate a poker run, conduct or
operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise
transfer for value, tickets or a chance on a raffle unless conducted pursuant
to terms outlined on a raffle or poker run license duly issued by the City of
Pittsfieid and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15). A raffle or poker run
license shall be valid for the period outlined on the license and shall not be
valid for more than twelve (12) months.
   (D)   Raffle and poker run licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
business, religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five years or more immediately before
applying for a license and which have had during that entire five year period,
a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to an
organization that the City of Pittsfield determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as a result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster. The City of Pittsfield may waive the five
year requirement for bona fide business, religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational or veterans organizations that apply for a license to
conduct a raffle or poker run if the organization has identified and maintains
a valid non-profit certification from the Internal Revenue Service, or if the
organization is a local organization that is affiliated with and chartered by a
national or state organization that meets the five year requirement. A current
copy of the organization’s constitution, by-laws or other documentation must be
included with the Raffle/Poker Run Application at the time of submission. The
following groups or individuals are ineligible for any license under this
chapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or organization in which a person defined in (1), (2), or
(3) (above) has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such a
person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in (1), (2), or (3)
(above) is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in (1), (2), or (3)
(above) is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle or poker
run as defined in this chapter.
   (E)   Political committees must include documentation of raffle approval
from the State Board of Elections when applying for a raffle license with the
City of Pittsfield. Raffle licenses for political committees will be issued in
accordance with the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All operation and conduct of raffles and poker runs shall be under the
supervision of a single manager designated by the licensee. A Fidelity bond
sufficient to cover the value of all prizes must be obtained by an organization
conducting a raffle or poker run and the bond must be submitted with each
Raffle/Poker Run Application. A Personal Surety Bond may be obtained from the
raffle/poker run manager in lieu of a Fidelity Bond for organizations
conducting a raffle/poker run in which the total retail value of all prizes and
merchandise awarded is less than $5,000.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.05 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Pittsfield City Clerk shall review all raffle and poker run
applications and shall, within 30 days from the date of application, approve or
deny the request for license. If the application is approved, the Pittsfield
City Clerk shall issue the raffle or poker run license accordingly.
   (B)   No fees shall be due to the city clerk for any application under this
chapter.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.06 OPERATION AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   The operation and conduct of a raffle or poker run shall be under the
supervision of at least one raffle or poker run manager designated by the
licensee.
   (B)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purpose of the license.
   (C)   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
   (D)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
   (E)   A licensee may rent the premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle or poker run only from an organization which is
also licensed under this chapter.
   (F)   Raffle chances and poker run entrance fees may be sold, offered for
sale, conveyed, issued or otherwise transferred for value only within the area
(s) stated and for the time period(s) outlined on the license. The winning
chances may be determined only at the location(s) specified on the license.
   (G)   If a raffle drawing or poker run is unable to be held as document on
the license due to an extreme emergency or natural disaster, the licensee must
seek approval of the Pittsfield City Clerk before the drawing or poker run can
be held on a different date. If a drawing or poke run is cancelled due to
inadequate sale of entries or raffle tickets or due to some reason other than
an extreme emergency or natural disaster, the licensee must notify all
participants or ticker purchasers, refund all monies and return all prizes
within 30 days. Such cancellation will be reported to the Pittsfield City Clerk
within ten days of that decision with a full explanation as to the reason.
   (H)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $500,000.
   (I)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or poker runs only with the written permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where
winning chances in a raffle or winning hands or scores in a poker run are being
determined only when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.07 DOCUMENTATION AND RECORD KEEPING.
   Each licensee shall report to the Pittsfield City Clerk its gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds from raffles and poker runs, including the payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment. Reporting shall occur within 30 days of
each raffle drawing or poker run. No new raffle or poker run licenses will be
issued to an organization until all reports from the organization’s previous
raffles or poker runs have been completed and submitted to the Pittsfield City
Clerk.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
§ 115.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of the City of
Pittsfield Raffle and Poker Run Ordinance shall constitute a violation. Any
person, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500. Each day
the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of the penalties as described in this section shall not
preclude the state’s attorney from instituting appropriate action to prevent
unlawful raffles or poker runs, or to restrain, correct or abate a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1626, passed 4-2-9)
CHAPTER 116: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   License issuance and renewal
   
116.04   License fee
   
116.05   Standards
   
116.06   Maximum occupancy
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, including individualized bathroom and
kitchen facilities, which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters
for a household.
   GUEST. A person who rents or occupies a short-term rental.
   HOST. An owner or owners engaged in providing short-term rentals.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A marketplace entity, in whatever form or format which
facilitates short-term rentals through advertising, matchmaking or other means,
using any medium or facilitation, or from which the operator of the hosting
platform derives revenue, including booking fees or advertising revenues from
providing or maintaining the marketplace information.
   OWNER. A person holding title or co-title of an abode, dwelling unit, or
residence. When such person occupies a dwelling unit, typically a house or an
apartment, that serves as their primary residence, they may lease the residence
as a short-term rental but only in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   SHORT-TERM RENTALS. An owner-occupied single-family residential abode,
including townhomes, condominiums, and rooming house dwelling units that is
primarily owner-occupied or leased for a term of six months or more except for
the duration of any short-term rental period.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage, or operate or cause to be conducted,
kept, managed or operated a short-term rental without a license therefore as
provided in this chapter. A license shall be obtained for each short-term
rental and shall not be transferable. All such licenses are required to be
renewed annually, subject to the same condition as the original license. Such
license shall be issued by the city upon payment of the fee as provided in this
code. Such fee shall accompany the license application.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.03 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL.
   The short-term rental premises is subject to an inspection by the city to
assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.04 LICENSE FEE.
   An applicant shall pay an annual license fee of $100.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.05 STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, no license shall
be issued unless the following standards are met:
   (A)   All owners must use a hosting platform to market a short-term rental.
The hosting platform shall be responsible for determining the guest's
identification information and the accuracy of that information;
   (B)   No owner shall rent any short-term rental for any period of time
shorter than 24 consecutive hours;
   (C)   The owner must provide proof of homeowner's insurance or host
protection insurance in the amount of at least $500,000 to the city as part of
its application;
   (D)   Every short-term rental shall be subject to inspection by staff
members of the city's or county's fire, police and/or health departments;
   (E)   The owner shall keep a guest register in which the name of every guest
and the guest's arrival and departure dates shall be recorded in written form.
The owner shall make the guest register freely accessible to any employee of
the city's or county police, fire, and/or health;
   (F)   The owner shall post at the front entrance to every short-term rental
dwelling unit or in the front window a current license issued by the city
stating the owner's name, a 24-hour telephone number to reach the owner, and
the maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.06 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   No owner shall permit the occupancy of any short-term rental unit to exceed
the maximum number of persons in a dwelling unit as set forth below.
 
Number of Bedrooms Maximum Number of Persons in a Dwelling Unit At One Time
1                  3
2                  4
3                  7
4                  9
5                  11
6                  13
 
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, guest or other person who shall be found to have violated
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense punishable
as follows:
      (1)   The fine for a first violation is $200;
      (2)   The fine for a second violation is $500; and
      (3)   The fine for a third or subsequent violation is $750.
   (B)   Each day a provision of this chapter is found to have been violated
constitutes a separate violation subject to the fine schedule set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Any fines shall be debts due and owing to the city that the city may
collect by any means allowed by law, including, but not limited to, filing a
lien against the subject property.
   (D)   The fines provided for herein shall not be construed as limiting the
power of a court of competent jurisdiction or an administrative hearing officer
to impose other penalties and/or remedies as provided for by law. In addition,
an owner found to have violated any provisions of this chapter may be subject
to the revocation, suspension or nonrenewal of a license pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1717, passed 9-19-23)
CHAPTER 117: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Manner of operation
   
117.03   Application requirements
   
117.04   Annual license
   
117.05   License non-transferable
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY-APPROVED SPECIAL EVENT. Any outdoor or seasonal event including, but
not limited to a picnic, parade, carnival, craft fair, art fair, bicycle/
motorcycle/vehicle ride, walk/run, car show, wedding or other reception, or any
other event held on public property which is open to attendance by the general
public and/or may require special consideration from any or all of the
following city departments: Pittsfield Police Department (EPD), Pittsfield Fire
Department, department of public works and Pittsfield Parks Department.
   COMMISSARY. A local health department permitted food establishment that acts
as a base of operations for a food truck. The commissary provides facilities
for adequate storage of food, food containers, or food supplies; equipment for
adequate washing and sanitizing of food equipment and utensils;  a servicing
area for the sanitary disposal of liquid waste; for handling and disposal of
garbage, grease, and rubbish originating from the food truck; facilities for
filling a potable water holding tank in a sanitary manner.
   FIXED POINT. The location of a mobile food vending operation that is
permanently placed with utilities in a location from which the business will
operate within the City of Pittsfield.
   FOOD TRUCK. Any self-contained motorized vehicle, pushcart, or self-
contained trailer designed to be operated on the roadway, on/in which food for
immediate consumption is prepared or from which food for immediate consumption
is served.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Pike County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The administrator of the County Health Department, or their
authorized representative.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. A self-contained motorized vehicle or self-contained
enclosed trailer designed to be operated on the roadway, from which ice cream
is sold.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
§ 117.02 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Certain locations prohibited. Food trucks shall only be permitted in
approved permitted areas. Food trucks shall not be located on any public street
or alley without consent of the City of Pittsfield. Food trucks invited by the
city to participate in city-run events, on city property, or in public parks,
shall be exempt from the requirements of this division. Ice cream trucks, as
defined herein, shall be exempt from the location requirements set forth in
this Code.
   (B)   City-approved special events. Food trucks may only operate on public
right-of-way, on city-owned property, or in a public park as part of a city-
approved special event. Any city-approved special event that will include food
trucks must list the number of food trucks and approximate location of said
food trucks on their special event permit application, which may be approved by
the Recreation Arts & Special Events Committee and the City Council.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Food trucks shall only operate between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. The food truck shall not be operated at a personal
residence within the city.
   (D)   Sale of alcoholic beverages. The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be
governed by the terms of
Chapter 110 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Pittsfield. The
provisions of this title shall apply to mobile alcohol trucks.
   (E)   Vehicle appearances and maintenance. Food trucks shall be kept in good
mechanical and structural condition. Food trucks shall have a clean exterior
and interior and shall be equipped with signs to alert traffic to proceed with
caution past the truck while the truck is serving customers. Each vehicle shall
have the company name affixed to it in a professional, workmanlike matter and
in letters that are a minimum of six inches in height. The company name shall
be affixed to each side of the vehicle. Both the generator and fuel tank shall
be affixed to the vehicle and shall not be placed on the ground.
   (F)   Health Department permit required. Any food truck operating in the
city shall be properly permitted by the County Health Department. All food
trucks shall be subject to the health code and all rules and regulations
promulgated by the Health Commissioner.
   (G)   Operation.
      (1)   Every food truck shall indemnify and hold harmless the city for all
suits or actions brought against the city for or on account of any injuries or
damages received or sustained by any party of parties for or from the said
vendor. Further, every vendor shall obtain and maintain insurance coverage as
required by the City Clerk's office. This insurance shall be in force at all
times during the course of operation within the city.
      (2)   The food truck shall pay retailers occupation tax to the City of
Pittsfield for all sales within the city limits.
   (H)   The food truck cannot be within 100 from the property line of any
other permanent prepared food service vendor. This provision may be waived in
writing by the impacted business(es), excluding special events.
   (I)   Fixed point mobile food vendors. Fixed point mobile food vendors are
permitted in B-2 Central Business District, B-3 Highway Business District, and
I-1 Light Industrial, zoning districts, provided the location meets the
following:
      (1)   Each vender must receive written authorization from the property
owner on the form provided by the city.
      (2)   The entire vehicle, trailer, or cart must comply with all setback
requirements for the zoning district in which the mobile food vending operation
will occur. The location of mobile food vending operations and equipment shall
be entirely at or behind the front plane of any building or structure related
to the primary use of the property.
      (3)   A drawing to scale depicting the location of any vehicles or
equipment used in the mobile food vending operation, including compliance with
setbacks and dedicated parking spaces is required to be submitted with the
application for a fixed-point mobile food vendor permit.
   (J)   Peripheral setup. No tents, tables, chairs, or other materials shall
be placed at the designated vending area unless approved by the property owner.
Signage shall be limited to signs permanently or magnetically affixed to the
food truck. Food trucks shall only be permitted to connect to city water,
electric, or other utilities to conduct business with written consent of the
city. Food trucks must also provide for the sanitary collection of all refuse,
litter, and garbage generated during food preparation and service by the food
truck and by patrons using the service and remove all such waste materials from
the location before the food truck departs.
   (K)   Public health standards. No food, food products, or beverages for
public consumption shall be kept, offered for sale, transported, or handled
except in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State of Illinois
and the County Health Department.
   (L)   Suspension and revocation of license. Suspension or revocation of a
license shall be done in accordance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Pittsfield.
   (M)   Fire safety requirements.
      (1)   All mobile food trucks operating with the city, or within the
boundaries of the city's fire protection area, are subject to announced or
unannounced inspection by the Pittsfield Fire Department.
      (2)   Mobile food trucks cannot operate with ten feet of any structure.
      (3)   Trucks must have their wheels chocked when parked.
      (4)   No seating may be provided inside the truck for patrons.
      (5)   Vehicles cannot block Fire Department access roads, fire lanes,
fire hydrants or other Fire Department devices or equipment.
      (6)   Food truck employees must have an approved means of communication
to contact emergency services.
         (a)   The address of the current operational location must be posted
and accessible to all employees.
         (b)   Workers must be trained in emergency response procedures, with
documentation of this training available for inspection upon request.
      (7)   Only U.S. Department of Transportation-approved models of propane
and natural gas tanks (49 CFR 178) may be used on mobile food vehicles. No
quick-connect devices (as defined in NFPA 58-7.2.2.5) are allowed except on
chassis-mounted tanks. Any such quick connect devices on chassis mounted tanks
shall be equipped with a manual shutoff.
      (8)   Tanks must be secure and conform with NFPA standards relating to
the safe mounting of tanks as described in NFPA 58-6.23.3.3.
      (9)   Cooking equipment. All cooking appliances must be listed by
Underwriters Laboratories or NSF International for mobile applications for the
appropriate fuel.
         (a)   All fat fryers must have a lid over the oil vat that can be
secured to prevent the spillage of cooking oil during transit.
         (b)   This lid is to be secured at all times when the vehicle is in
motion.
      (10)   Automatic and manual shutoffs. Each gas-fired appliance shall be
equipped with an automatic device designed to shut off the flow of gas to the
main burner and pilot in the even the pilot flame is extinguished. The main
system shutoff valve must be clearly marked with the words "PROPANE AND NATURAL
GAS SHUTOFF VALVE."
      (11)   All vehicles must be equipped with no less than one 10 BC rated
fire extinguisher, or if a deep fryer is present in the vehicle, a Class K fire
extinguisher. All vehicles used for cooking that produce grease-laden vapors
must be equipped with a working Ansul R-102 or K class automatic fire
suppression system.
      (12)   Kitchen hood. Each mobile food vehicle that uses propane or
natural gas for cooking must be equipped with a Type I or Type II commercial
kitchen exhaust hood. Additionally, each truck must be equipped with a working
ventilation system that meets the requirements of NFPA 96, Chapter 5, which
must be in operation at all times when the cooking equipment is being used.
      (13)   Detection systems. All mobile food vehicles must be equipped with
a working carbon monoxide detector. All cabinet-mounted tanks must be equipped
with a leak indicator according to NFPA 1192-6.4.8.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
§ 117.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Food trucks seeking a license to operate within the city shall provide a
completed application to the City Clerk's office. A fee shall be paid in
accordance with the city's adopted fee schedule, prior to issuance of license.
Applications shall include but not limited to the following information:
   (A)   Applicants name, address, phone number and email;
   (B)   Business name, address, phone number and email;
   (C)   Driver/operator name, address, phone number and email;
   (D)   List of mobile food trucks intended to be operated including year,
make, model and license plate number;
   (E)   Applicant's Illinois Department of Revenue Identification number for
the retailer's occupation tax unless applicant provides proof of non-profit
status;
   (F)   Copy of driver's license for all drivers and operators of the food
truck;
   (G)   Written consent from the owner of the property upon which the mobile
food truck will be located;
   (H)   A copy of health department permits;
   (I)   Copy of current vehicle registration and proof of liability and
automobile insurance.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
§ 117.04 ANNUAL LICENSE.
   The license for a food truck shall be valid for a period of 12 months and
shall be renewed annually in January. Licenses for applications received
throughout the year shall be issued and paid for on a pro-rated basis. Said
license shall be displayed so that it is visible to customers. The fee for this
license shall be $200 per annum, to be pro-rated quarterly upon initial license
purchase.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
§ 117.05 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Any license issued for the operation of a food truck shall not be
transferable.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter is subject to the penalties as
set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1720, passed 10-17-23)
CHAPTER 118: MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Licensing requirements
   
118.03   Operating requirements
   
118.04   Enforcement
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC. A vehicle that is equipped and used for the
purpose of providing veterinary services, including but not limited to
vaccinations, examinations, treatment, and surgery, to animals.
   MUNICIPALITY. The city/town/village in which the MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC is
operated.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity that operates a MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC.
(Ord. 1721, passed 11-7-23)
§ 118.02 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate a mobile veterinary clinic within
the municipality without obtaining a license from the municipality.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be submitted to the municipality
and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the operator;
      (2)   Proof of liability insurance;
      (3)   description of the mobile veterinary clinic and its equipment;
      (4)   Proof of compliance with all applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (5)   A list of the veterinary services to be provided;
      (6)   A list of the types of animals to be serviced.
      (7)   Applicants Illinois Department of Revenue Identification number for
the Retailers Occupation Tax unless applicant provides proof of non-profit
status.
   (C)   The license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year from
the date of issuance.
(Ord. 1721, passed 11-7-23)
§ 118.03 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile veterinary clinics shall only operate during the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m, except in event of an emergency.
   (B)   Mobile veterinary clinics shall be operated in compliance with all
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   (C)   Mobile veterinary clinics shall be operated in a manner that does not
create a nuisance or hazard to public safety or welfare.
   (D)   Mobile veterinary clinics shall maintain accurate records of all
animals treated, including but not limited to the type of service provided, the
date of service, and the animal's identification.
   (E)   Mobile veterinary clinics shall have a designated location for the
disposal of animal waste and medical waste.
(Ord. 1721, passed 11-7-23)
§ 118.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the authority to revoke or suspend the
license of any mobile veterinary clinic that violates any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 1721, passed 11-7-23)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
      
138.   CRIMINAL CODE
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this city or state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or engage in
that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully”, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the term
“wantonly”, unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act that
constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility.  It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Penalty. A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed
the maximum provided for the offense attempted. If such fine exceeds that set
forth in §
130.99 below, however, the city shall enforce said offense under the provisions
of state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging city property
   
131.04   Damage to other property
   
131.05   Vehicle offenses
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy, or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine, or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   No person shall enter upon the land or into a building other than a
residence, or any part thereof, of another after receiving, prior to the entry,
notice from the owner or occupant that an entry is forbidden, or remain upon
the land or in a building other than a residence, of another after receiving
notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
   (B)   A person is deemed to have received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of division (A) if he or she has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding an
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the
land or the forbidden part thereof. As an alternative to the posting of real
property, the owner or lessee may post the property by marking trees or posts
as designated in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on this land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing, or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living on the land.
   (D)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if he or
she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential or industrial properties
located within this city. For the purpose of this division, UNOCCUPIED AND
ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL or INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate in which the
taxes have not been paid for a period of at least two years, and which has been
left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at least one year. BEAUTIFIES
means to landscape, clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated conditions on or
to board up windows and doors.
   (E)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any city property without the city's consent.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage city property
without the city's consent.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on city land without the consent of the
city.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on city land or in a city building any stink bomb
or any offensive-smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere with the
use by the city of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The following acts shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent.
      (2)   To recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of
another.
      (3)   To knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent.
      (4)   To knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent.
      (5)   To knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another,
without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive-smelling compound
and thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or
building; or
      (6)   To damage any property with intent to defraud an insurer. ('74
Code, § 19-34)
      (7)   To knowingly damage any property supported in whole or in part with
city funds administered or granted through a city agency without the consent of
the city;
      (8)   To knowingly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property
supported in whole or in part with city funds or granted administered through
city agencies.
      (9)   To knowingly start a fire on property supported in whole or in part
with city funds administered or granted through city agencies without the
consent of the city.
      (10)   To knowingly deposit on land or in a building supported in whole
or in part with city funds or funds administered or granted through city
agencies without the consent of the city any stink bomb or any offensive-
smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere with the use by the another
of the land or building.
('74 Code, § 19-37)
   (B)   Whoever enters upon land supported in whole or in part with city funds
or funds administered or granted through city agencies or any building on the
land, after receiving, immediately before the entry, notice from the city or
its representative that entry is forbidden or remains upon the land or in the
building after receiving notice from the city or its representative to depart
and who thereby interferes with another person's lawful use or enjoyment of the
building or land, shall commit an offense.
   (C)   Whoever enters upon the land, or any part thereof, of another, after
receiving, immediately before the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that
entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after receiving notice
from the owner or occupant to depart, shall commit an offense.
   (D)   A person has received notice from the city within the meaning of
divisions (B) and (C) above if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding the entry by
him or a group of which he or she is a part has been conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the land or the forbidden part thereof.
('74 Code, §§ 19-36 and 19-39) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 VEHICLE OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful to knowingly and without authority enter any vehicle,
aircraft, or watercraft, or any part thereof, of another without that person's
consent.
('74 Code, § 19-35) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Loitering
   
132.03   Assault; fighting
   
132.04   Licenses
   
132.05   Unlawful assembly
   
132.06   Obstructing stairs or exits
City and Truancy Curfew
   
132.15   Definitions
   
132.16   Curfew restrictions
   
132.17   Truancy restrictions
   
132.18   Enforcement
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)    A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)    Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in such place that its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in such place;
      (3)    Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer, or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense has been committed, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such an offense has been committed;
      (4)   Enters upon the property of another, and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      (5)    Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the Police
Department or Fire Department or any privately-owned and operated ambulance
service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical technician-
ambulance, or emergency medical technician-paramedic knowing at the time there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is required.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1)
      (6)   Disturbs any lawful assemblage or gathering in the city.
('74 Code, § 19-21)
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed as set forth in §
132.99, any person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be ordered by the
court to perform community service, as set forth under the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1) ('74 Code, § 19-16) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   Any person who, after being warned by any police officer, shall
congregate with another or others on any street, sidewalk or public way in the
city in such manner as to impede, obstruct or halt the free passage of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The prohibition in division (A) shall not apply to a person lawfully
engaged in an authorized parade, march, funeral procession or assembly.
(Ord. 1298, passed 7-6-04) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 ASSAULT; FIGHTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or battery or
to fight in any public or private place in the city or on city-owned property,
except in the course of athletic contests held in a gymnasium, or on a stage,
or in a rink designed for such purpose.
(Ord. 1130, passed 4-5-94)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall commit the offense of assault.
      (2)   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or
she engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
('74 Code, § 19-18)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall commit the offense of battery.
      (2)   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly,
without legal justification and by any means:
         (a)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or,
         (b)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with
an individual.
('74 Code, § 19-19) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful to fail or refuse to obtain and possess any licenses
required by this code of ordinances.
('74 Code, § 18-1) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful to organize, lead, or participate in any unlawful
assembly of persons.
('74 Code, §§ 18-1 and 19-20) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 OBSTRUCTING STAIRS OR EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor, or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used
by two or more tenants or families in any such manner that it interferes with
the free use of the driveway, corridor or exit.
('74 Code, § 19-22) Penalty, see §
132.99
CITY AND TRUANCY CURFEW
§ 132.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CURFEW HOURS.  The period from 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday until 6:00 a.m. the following day; and 12:01 a.m. until
6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
   COURT. The Eighth Judicial Circuit, Pike County, Illinois.
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   A person who under court order is the custodian of the person of a
minor;
      (2)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor;
or
      (3)   A person acting in the role of a parent by reason of a private
agreement, arrangement, custom or habit.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to,
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   GUARDIAN.  
      (1)   A parent;
      (2)   A person who under court order is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (3)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of
another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
public ways, sidewalks and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age, authorized by a
parent, guardian or custodian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   TRUANCY CURFEW HOURS. The period of the day when the school the minor would
normally attend is in session, on days when the school the minor would normally
attend is in session.
   TRUANT OFFICER. Any officer, appointee, employee or other agent of any
school district or any federal, state or local governmental entity or agency
thereof performing the duties of a truant officer under the Illinois compulsory
attendance statute (ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, 26-1 et seq.).
   TRUANCY REVIEW BOARD. An agency or entity established by any school district
or any federal, state or local governmental entity or any counseling or social
agency or any combination thereof recognized by the city and/or the court as an
agency which provides service to improve education performance and/or
attendance.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-3-04)
§ 132.16 CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the City of Pittsfield during city
curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the City of
Pittsfield during city curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) or (B) above or §
132.18 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian, custodian, or
responsible adult;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent, guardian, or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel with the consent
or authorization of a parent, guardian or custodian;
      (4)   Engaged in, going to or returning home from an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults, sponsored by
the City of Pittsfield, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   Engaged in, going to or returning from an employment activity
without a detour or stop;
      (7)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution; or
      (9)   Emancipated pursuant to law.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-3-04)
§ 132.17 TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the version of the Pike County truancy
ordinance currently in effect in Pike County, Illinois. The Pike County truancy
ordinance shall apply with full force and effect within the incorporated areas
of the city, and shall apply with full force and effect in all areas of the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The city hereby ordains that if the County of Pike makes amendments to
the current version of the Pike County truancy ordinance, such amendments shall
also apply with full force and effect within the incorporated areas of the
city, and within all areas of the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1539, passed 4-7-15)
§ 132.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department while on duty, is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of this
subchapter (regardless of whether a citation is immediately issued) until the
parent, custodian or guardian of the minor shall take him or her into custody,
but such officer shall immediately upon taking custody of the minor reasonably
attempt to communicate with the parent, custodian or guardian of the minor
unless division (E) herein is applicable. A parent, custodian or guardian must
take custody of the minor within one hour of the time of notice or be subject
to a charge of $25 per hour as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer or truant officer witnesses or has knowledge
based on reasonable grounds of a violation of this subchapter by any person,
such person may be issued a citation. A citation or complaint may be made to a
police officer or truant officer by any person.
   (C)   (1)   A citation issued hereunder shall be in writing and shall:
         (a)   State the name of the person being cited and the person's
address if known;
         (b)   Set forth the specific section of this subchapter that was
violated, the date of the violation and a brief description of the violation;
         (c)   Be signed by the issuing police officer, truant officer or
complaining party.
      (2)   In each instance where a citation is issued to a minor for
violation of this subchapter a minor's parent, custodian or guardian shall be
provided a copy of the citation notifying the parent, custodian or guardian of
the charge made against the minor.
   (D)   A minor cited for a citation under this subchapter must attend a court
hearing or truancy review board hearing on the citation and must be accompanied
at the hearing by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having the legal care and custody of the minor. If any such person fails to
attend any court hearing with the minor, and unless the interest of justice
would otherwise be served, the court may continue the hearing and shall issue a
notice or a rule to show cause to the person directing the person to appear at
the continued hearing with the minor. Failure of the person to thereafter
appear shall subject the person to sanctions for contempt of court as
determined by the court.
   (E)   Every member of the Police Department while on duty is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of §
132.17, regardless of whether a citation is issued, and to deliver and
surrender the minor to the lawful authorities of the school that the minor
would normally attend.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-3-04)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   Whoever violates and provisions of §
132.02 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $500, except that neither a person who has been made a ward of
the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (being ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405, §§
1-1 et seq.), nor that person’s legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine.
In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this section, the court may
order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of §
132.02 to perform community service as determined by the court, except that the
legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the court under the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform community service. The
dates and times established for the performance of community service by the
parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of §
132.02 shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is employed
in his or her regular occupation.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
132.15 through
132.18 shall upon conviction thereof be subject to the following:
      (1)   Fined not less than $5 nor more than $200, and a separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed upon each day on which such violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, a minor may be ordered to
attend counseling or to perform ten hours of community service during times
other than the minor's hours of school attendance and/or the minor's parents,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having legal care or custody of the
minor may be ordered to attend a parenting class or series of parenting classes
or other counseling approved by the court or recommended by the truancy review
board or to attend any program directly related to improving school attendance
and/or performance.
      (3)   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to division (C)(1) or
(2) above, the minor's parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having legal care or custody of the minor may be ordered to pay all amounts
imposed as civil liability under division (C)(4) below.
      (4)   If a minor is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour
which requires the supervision of the minor by personnel of the Pittsfield
Police Department, the parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having the legal care or custody of the minor shall be jointly and severally
liable for the costs therefore. The parents, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having the legal care or custody of a minor who has committed any
offense under §§
132.15 through
132.18 shall be assessed and billed for the costs, and the costs shall be
recoverable in any action enforcing any provision of §§
132.15 through
132.18 or in a separate civil action. In addition, the failure to pay the costs
shall constitute a violation of §§
132.15 through
132.18 and subject the violator to the penalties described in division (C)(1)
through (3) above. In the event any action is filed, the liable party shall be
responsible for all court costs and any reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by
the city in collecting.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-3-04)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
   
133.04   Impersonation
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE shall mean any person employed to supervise and control inmates
incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of
correction, police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or
place for the incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses
or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a
violation of probation, a violation of parole, a violation of aftercare
release, a violation of mandatory supervised release, or awaiting a bail
setting hearing or preliminary hearing, or who are sexually dangerous persons
or who are sexually violent persons and the term FIREFIGHTER means any
individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a regularly constituted fire
department of a municipality, or fire protection district who performs fire
fighting duties, including, but not limited to, the fire chief, assistant fire
chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person, hose person, pipe person, and
any other member of a regularly constituted fire department; FIREFIGHTER also
means a person employed by the Office of the Stare Fire Marshal to conduct
arson investigations.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) ('74 Code, § 19-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly reasonably fail to aid a
person known by him to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   No person shall knowingly and without lawful authority alter, destroy,
deface, remove, or conceal any public notice posted according to law, during
the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 IMPERSONATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate, without lawful
authority, any city officer or employee.
('74 Code, § 19-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE. For purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30)  ('74 Code, § 19-80) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement, or possession of a mold,
engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; and
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) ('74 Code, §§ 19-87 and 19-88) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      (1)   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      (2)   HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or
representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement,
or sado-masochistic abuse, when, taken as a whole, it:
         (a)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors,
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors, and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
      (3)   KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter,
or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have
disclosed the contents.
      (4)   MATERIAL.  
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically, or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      (6)   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
      (7)   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
      (8)   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or
physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if such person be a female, breast.
      (9)   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or
gives away to a minor, knowing that the minor is under the age of 18 or failing
to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation.
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth
certificate or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
      (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of such organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
      (5)    That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, Internet
or similar means of communication, and delivery of such harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, Internet or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state.”
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom such material was sold, lent, distributed or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent offense is a Class 4 felony.
   (F)    Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or
in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or
offers to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not
actually his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing, or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor. If that person utilized a computer web camera, cellular
phone, or any other type of device to manufacture the harmful material, then
each offense is a Class 4 felony.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, Internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21)
Statutory references:
   Sexually explicit video games, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 § 12b-1 et seq.
   Violent video games, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 § 12a-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACCESS. The meaning ascribed to it in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 17-55.
   COMPUTER. The meaning ascribed to it in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 17-52.5.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won, or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment, or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include the following, as more specifically defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 28-2 (a)(1) through (a)(5):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices.
      (2)   Vending machines.
      (3)   Crane games.
      (4)   Redemption machines.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals.
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system, or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale, or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the Illinois Banking Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g), § 7008 of
the Savings Bank Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois
Credit Union Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 305, § 42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank
Act (12 U.S.C. 25a), or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token, or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket, or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
city, he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or
any political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Knowingly contracts to have or give himself or herself or another
the option to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any
grain or other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company,
as described in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1 (a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the courses of a bet or
wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell,
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell, or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document, or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticker or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
trans-mission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the Internet.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with ILCS Ch.
20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch.
230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.; and
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20,
§§ 1 et seq.; and
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act.
      (13)   Games of skill or change where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate.
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act (ILCS Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (ILCS
Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (ILCS Ch.
205, Act 305, § 42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 25a), or § 4
of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling. No person shall knowingly permit any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or under his control to be used as a gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by city
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property, or a right to
receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed for
gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a),(b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
136.01 through
136.07 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100 et
seq., motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any
person or create a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360; or anything else of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise disposed
of improperly. (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in
Chapter 70 of this code.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, deposit- ing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
posses- sion, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the
owner or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360, when the emergency
situation no longer exists.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4 and 8)
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in this city except as permitted under §
136.02 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $500.
   (C)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person who
is convicted of violating this section.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 5 and 8)
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 6 and 8)
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recrea- tion, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, camp- grounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations,
business parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching
areas, industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers,
beaches and bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and
shopping malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION,
OR AS A PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to any property that is
publicly owned or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in
this division for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF
BUSINESS but excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located
thereon.
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating this section. If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his property as indicated by the condition and appearance of
that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide
sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of
that fact by written notice from the police, he shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
   
137.05   Discharge of firearms
Air Rifles
   
137.10   Definitions
   
137.11   Selling, renting, or transferring to children; prohibition
   
137.12   Carrying or discharging on public streets
   
137.13   Permissive possession
   
137.14   Permissive sales
   
137.15   Seizure and removal
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 through
16.3
   Boarding aircraft with weapons, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01 through 7
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   (a)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess, or carry any bludgeon,
black- jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switch-blade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring, or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas, but which shall not be deemed to include crossbows, common or compound
bows, or underwater spearguns in accordance with ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1
(e);
         (b)   The provision of division (A)(1) of this section prohibiting the
sale, manufacture, purchase, possession, or carrying of any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid Firearm
Owner’s Identification Card previously issued in his or her name by the
Illinois State Police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of
selling or manufacturing switchblade knives.
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
      (3)   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (4)   Set a spring gun;
      (5)   Carry or possess any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration, or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted;
      (6)   Sell, manufacture, deliver, import, possess, or purchase any
assault weapon attachment or 0.50 caliber cartridge in violation of state law
or any explosive bullet. EXPLOSIVE BULLET shall mean the projectile portion of
an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which
will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE
means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and
a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in the
tube between the projectile and the cap; or
      (7)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, or other weapon of
like character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a
weapon. For purposes of this section, BILLY CLUB means a short stick or club
commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or constructed
of a solid piece of wood or other man-made material.
   (B)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in division (A), means:
      (1)   Any device which is powered by elec- trical charging units, such as
batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him incapable of
normal functioning; or
      (2)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in
such a manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1) ('74 Code, § 19-50) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; possession of
weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or possession of weapons on school or
university grounds (all of which are felonies), see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-
1(a)(6), (7), and (9) and § 24-1(c)(2) respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   §§
137.01(A)(3),
137.01(A)(7) and
137.01(B) do not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment.
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation if their duties include
the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004 (ILCS
Ch. 225, Act 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of
their employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment. A
person shall be considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has
completed the required 20 hours of training for a private security contractor,
private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed
private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor
agency and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions
of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the private security contractor, private detective, or private
alarm contractor, or employee of the licensed private security contractor,
private detective, or private alarm contractor agency at all times when he or
she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm
control card.
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided, that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the state Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours
of training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts,
and the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for
this exception who has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the state Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under state law. The firearm control card shall be carried by the security
guard at all times when he is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted
by his or her firearm control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3), while on duty in the course of any investigation for the
Commission.
      (8)   Persons employed as a security guard by a financial institution for
the protection of other employees and property related to that financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by the financial institution, and who, as
a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department; provided that any person so employed has successfully completed a
course of study, approved by and supervised by the state Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this
exemption who has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security
officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a
firearm control card by the state Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm control cards issued under the
provisions of this section shall be the same as for those issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the security guard at all times when he or she is in possession
of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For
purposes of this division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, or company providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his duties.
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State's
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to ILCS Ch. 725, Act
210, §§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State's Attorney under ILCS
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005.
      (13)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties, or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff.
      (13.5)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear
energy, storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and
training mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
      (14)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under (A)(1) through (13.5) of this section to possess those
weapons.
Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(10) above do not apply to or affect any person
carrying a concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the person has been
issued a currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act at the
time of the commission of the offense.
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or carrying of a
black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(5) does not apply to any owner, manager, or authorized employee of
any place specified in that division or to any law enforcement officer.
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(6) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance.
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance.
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly, or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (F)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
   (E)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negative any exemptions contained in this
subchapter. The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying,
or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common
carrier is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or
affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol, revolver,
stun gun, taser, or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7) or division (B) of this section above, which is
unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box, or other
container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner's identification card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning exemptions on the regulation of silencers on guns,
see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(g)(5)
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He is under 18 years of age and has in his possession any firearm
of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a misdemeanor
other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any firearms or
firearm ammunition in his possession;
      (3)   He is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm ammunition
in his possession;
      (4)   He has been a patient in a mental institution within the past five
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his possession. For
purposes of this division (A)(4), MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital,
institution, clinic, evaluation facility, mental health center, or part
thereof, which is used primarily for the care or treatment of persons with
mental illness. PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was admitted,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness; or
      (5)   He is a person with an intellectual disability and has any firearms
or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
      (6)   He has in his possession any explosive bullet. For the purposes of
this section, EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal
case having a projectile fixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the
rear end thereof with the propellent contained in the tube between the
projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in violation of
this section constitutes a single and separate violation. Unlawful possession
of handguns is a felony punishable under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1) ('74 Code, § 19-51) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6) ('74 Code, § 19-52)
§ 137.05 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm,
slingshot, slungshot, bow and arrow, air gun, pellet gun, spring-loaded gun, or
other weapon in the city or on city-owned property, except as provided in
division (B) of this section and in §§
137.12 and
137.13.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply to a Peace Officer in
the performance of his or her duty, or to a person hunting on city-owned
property with the express permission of the city, or with respect to bow and
arrow only to persons on the premises of a retail store where bow and arrow are
regularly sold when the purpose for the discharge thereof is for demonstration
or instruction or otherwise under the supervision of an employee of the store.
('74 Code, § 19-53) (Ord. 1143, passed 11-1-94; Am. Ord. 1157, passed 5-16-95)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.06 MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any stone, rock, or other
object or missile on any street, alley, or other public place.
('74 Code, § 19-54)
AIR RIFLES
§ 137.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
137.10 et seq., the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B.B. gun,
pellet gun, or any implement that is not a firearm, which impels a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   DEALER. Any person, copartnership, association, or corporation engaged in
the business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in
the definition of AIR RIFLE.
§ 137.11 SELLING, RENTING, OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give, or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years where the dealer
knows or has cause to believe the person to be under 13 years of age or where
the dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age of the
person and the person is under 13 years of age.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend, or otherwise
transfer any air rifle to any person under 13 years of age except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil exists between the person and the person under 13 years of age, or where
the person stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.12 CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 13 years of age to carry any air
rifle on the public streets, roads, highways, or public lands within this city,
unless the person under 13 years of age carries the rifle unloaded.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle from or
across any street, sidewalk, road, highway, or public land or any public place
except on a safely constructed target range.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall pay a fine not to
exceed $50.
§ 137.13 PERMISSIVE POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, it is lawful for any person
under 13 years of age to have in his possession any air rifle if it is:
   (A)   Kept within his house of residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person under 13 years of age and he is a duly enrolled
member of any club, team, or society organized for educational purposes and
maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission to use an
indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and instruction
of a responsible adult, and then only if the air rifle is actually being used
in connection with the activities of the club, team, or society under the
supervision of a responsible adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle is fired, discharged, or operated in a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residence.
§ 137.14 PERMISSIVE SALES.
   The provisions of §§
137.10 through
137.14 do not prohibit sales of air rifles:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state;
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 535, § 4 or by members of the Armed Services of the United States or
veterans' organizations.
§ 137.15 SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   Any police officer shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this chapter.
 
CHAPTER 138: CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
138.01   Adoption of Illinois Criminal Code
   
138.02   Citation
§ 138.01 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference the following provisions of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 1-1 et. seq as existing
on the effective date of this chapter and as may be amended after the effective
date:
      Act 5 of the Criminal Code of 2012 Article l through 49 of Title I
through V.
   (B)   Said sections shall be cited as described in §
138.02.
   (C)   No person shall violate any provision of the Illinois Criminal Code so
incorporated into this chapter by reference. Any reference in the incorporated
sections of the Illinois Criminal Code shall be construed to refer to the
“Pittsfield Criminal Code”, unless the context of the section clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (D)   Some title headings of the sections of the Illinois Criminal Code
incorporated into the Pittsfield Criminal Code are set forth herein without the
full text of the incorporated statute. Said headings are set forth for
convenience of the reader only, and the failure to include the full text herein
shall not be construed as a failure to properly enact the chapter or
incorporate sections of the Illinois Criminal Code into this chapter. The full
text of the incorporated sections appear in full in ILCS Ch. 720.
(Ord. 1697, passed 5-17-22)
§ 138.02 CITATION.
   Any references to the Illinois Criminal Code incorporated into the
Pittsfield Criminal Code shall be cited as follows:
      “
Chapter 138” as the case may be, with the blank portion referring to the act
and section number. For example, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 1-1 shall be cited as
Chapter 138-1-1.
(Ord. 1697, passed 5-17-22)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODES
      
151.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
152.   RESERVED
      
153.   HOUSING STANDARDS
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
      
157.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
158.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code adopted; compliance required
   
150.02   Plumbing Code adopted; compliance required
   
150.03   Fees for building and plumbing permits
   
150.04   Fire limits
Dilapidated Buildings
   
150.10   Nuisance declared
   
150.11   Abatement
   
150.12   Removal or destruction for failure to abate
   
150.13   Cost of removal or destruction
Moving Buildings
   
150.20   Permit required; application
   
150.21   Bond
   
150.22   Approval of permit; fee
   
150.23   Damages
   
150.24   Lights and warnings
   
150.25   Utility wires; cables
   
150.26   Fire alarm wires
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The 2009 edition of the International Building Code is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
   (B)   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, convert, use, occupy or maintain any building in the
city contrary to or in violation of the provisions of the building code adopted
in division (A) above.
('74 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 793, passed 3-5-68; Am. Ord. 1492, passed 4-2-13)
§ 150.02 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The most current edition of the Illinois State Plumbing Code, as
promulgated by the state Department of Health, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any plumbing installation
in the city except in conformity with the plumbing code adopted in division (A)
above.
('74 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 793, passed 3-5-68)
§ 150.03 FEES FOR BUILDING AND PLUMBING PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a permit is required by either the plumbing code or building
code of the city, the fee for it shall be as established by the City Council by
ordinance or resolution. A schedule of the permit fees shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A residential unit consisting of three units or less shall be a
residence for the purpose of a building permit. A residential unit consisting
of more than three residential units shall be a commercial unit for the purpose
of a building permit.
(‘74 Code, § 6-3) (Am. Ord. 1643, passed 10-15-19)
§ 150.04 FIRE LIMITS.
   For the purposes of the building code adopted in §
150.01, the following fire limits are hereby established: all that part of the
city within the limits commencing at the northwest corner of Fayette and
Jackson streets; running thence north along Jackson Street to the southwest
corner of Jackson and Jefferson streets; thence west along Jefferson Street to
the southeast corner of Jefferson and Webster streets; thence south along
Webster Street to the northeast corner of Webster and Fayette Streets; thence
east on Fayette Street to the place of beginning, including blocks, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 in the original Town of Pittsfield.
('74 Code, § 6-4)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 150.10 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any dilapidated building situated upon a principal street of the city, unfit
for human habitation or other lawful use, devoted to no use or purpose and a
source of serious discomfort and annoyance to the public and of actual danger
to useful and valuable property of the community within range of its influence,
is a public nuisance.
('74 Code, § 6-16) (Ord. 681, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.11 ABATEMENT.
   Any person who is the owner of, or is in control of, any building within the
city which is so dilapidated as to be a public nuisance, shall abate the
nuisance within 30 days after written notice by the Mayor to do so.
('74 Code, § 6-17) (Ord. 681, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.12 REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   In the event the owner or person in control of any building within the
city which is a nuisance under this subchapter shall fail or refuse to abate
the nuisance within 30 days after written notice by the Mayor to do so, the
City Council shall determine whether or not the building is, in fact, a
nuisance.
      (1)   If the opinion of the Council is in the affirmative, the Council
may order or cause the removal or destruction of the building after giving 15
days' notice of intention to do so to any person who is an owner or lienholder
of record or who is in notorious control of the building.
      (2)   The notice shall particularly describe the property upon which the
building is located and shall be by registered mail.
   (B)   In the event there are unknown owners, or if the addresses of the
owners or lienholders are not known, notice shall be by publication in a
secular newspaper of general circulation in the city, only one publication
being required. The publication must be made not less than 15 days and not more
than 30 days before the date which the city intends to order or cause the
removal or destruction of the building.
('74 Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 681, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.13 COST OF REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION.
   In the event the city institutes steps to remove or destroy a building which
is so dilapidated as to constitute a public nuisance under this subchapter, the
costs of the city in the proceeding shall be recoverable from the owner of the
premises on which the building was located. The city may cause a special
assessment to be made against the affected property for the costs.
('74 Code, § 6-19)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall move any building on, through or over any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the City Council.
   (B)   Application for a permit required by division (A) above shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk and shall state the proposed route and number of
days it is intended the building shall occupy any portion of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place.
('74 Code, § 6-31) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.21 BOND.
   (A)   Each person applying for a permit required by this subchapter shall
submit a cash bond in an amount determined by the Mayor, conditioned on the
applicant's compliance with all the provisions of this subchapter and agreeing
to pay and hold the city harmless from any claim which may be made against it
by reason of the occupation of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place by the building or structure moved.
   (B)   The cash bond required by division (A) above shall be in substantially
the following form:
“Know all men by these presents:
   “That I,           , as principal, am firmly bound to the City of
Pittsfield, an Illinois Municipal Corporation, in the penal sum of $     ,
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the principal of all the
provisions of the subchapter “Moving Buildings” of
Chapter 150 of this code, including the holding of the city harmless from any
claim which may be made against the city by reason of the occupation of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure
moved.
   “In the event that I, as principal, shall comply with the provisions of the
code, including the holding of the city harmless from any claim which may be
made against the city by reason of the occupation of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure moved, this bond
shall be void; otherwise it shall be in full force and effect.
                                    
               Principal
                                    
               Surety
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
          )   ss.
COUNTY OF PIKE )
   I,           , do hereby certify that           , as principal, personally
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that he/she signed the
foregoing document in the respective capacities therein set forth and declared
that the statements therein contained are true.
   In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and year
before written.
                                         
                        Notary Public”
('74 Code, § 6-32) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.22 APPROVAL OF PERMIT; FEE.
   Upon approval by the City Council of the application for a permit required
by this subchapter, including the intended route, a fee of $15 for each day or
fraction thereof that it is intended that the building shall occupy any portion
of any public place shall be paid to the City Clerk and the permit shall be
issued. An additional payment of $15 for each day or fraction thereof over and
above the time stated on the permit during or on which any building shall
occupy the public place shall be paid.
('74 Code, § 6-33) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.23 DAMAGES.
   In the event any person, while moving any building on, through or over any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place, shall cause damage to the
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place, he or she shall indemnify the
city for the damage.
('74 Code, § 6-34) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.24 LIGHTS AND WARNINGS.
   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is being
moved, warning devices to that effect shall be placed by the Police Department
so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street so
blocked. The person moving any building through the streets shall keep warning
signs and lanterns or lights at night on the building to guard against any
person or vehicle from colliding with it.
('74 Code, § 6-35) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.25 UTILITY WIRES; CABLES.
   Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or cables of a public
utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or franchise ordinance
governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall be given. If no
terms apply, the Mayor shall estimate the expense of fixing the wires and the
bond to be given to cover the expense.
('74 Code, § 6-36) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
§ 150.26 FIRE ALARM WIRES.
   When any building being moved subject to this subchapter approaches any fire
alarm wire or pole which may be endangered by the movement of the building or
structure, the mover shall notify the Chief of the Fire Department at least six
hours before reaching the wire or pole so the wire or pole may be removed or
cared for by the city.
('74 Code, § 6-37) (Ord. 682, passed 8-15-61)
CHAPTER 151: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
151.01   Minimum standards
§ 151.01 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the city Electrical Commission's recommendation, the
following are adopted as safe and practical standards for the installation,
alteration and use of electrical equipment in the city:
      (1)   The most current edition of the National Electrical Code, as
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, three copies of which
are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   The rules and regulations regarding the installation, alteration
and use of electrical equipment as adopted by the AmerenCIPS and Illinois Rural
Electric Cooperative, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Clerk, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully
as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the minimum installation standards
adopted in division (A) above, the more stringent standards shall prevail.
   (C)   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter, no person
shall make any electrical installation in the city except in conformity with
the minimum standards adopted in division (A) above.
('74 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 716, passed 1-21-64 ; Am. Ord. 1360, passed 8-21-07)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Access by owner
   
153.03   Higher standards prevail
   
153.04   Inspection; right of access
   
153.05   Notice of violations
   
153.06   Hearing
   
153.07   Emergency abatement
   
153.08   Authority of Health Officer
Unfit Dwellings
   
153.20   Designation; condemnation
   
153.21   Basis for condemnation
   
153.22   Vacation of premises
   
153.23   Removal of prohibition against habitation
   
153.24   Unlawful removal of placard
   
153.25   Hearing
Minimum Standards
   
153.35   Compliance required
   
153.36   Plumbing
   
153.37   Water heater
   
153.38   Refuse disposal
   
153.39   Egress
   
153.40   Installation and maintenance of facilities
   
153.41   Sanitation
   
153.42   Extermination
   
153.43   Light; heat; ventilation
   
153.44   Windows and skylights
   
153.45   Screens
   
153.46   Outlets and fixtures
   
153.47   Heating facilities
   
153.48   Light in hallways and stairways
Space; Use; Location
   
153.60   Compliance
   
153.61   Floor area
   
153.62   Room arrangement
   
153.63   Ceiling height
   
153.64   Cellar space
   
153.65   Basement space
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly below ground, but having
less than half of its clear, floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located wholly or partly below ground and
having half or more than half of its clear, floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living or sleeping by human occupants. Temporary housing, as defined in this
section, is not a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single, habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimi- nation of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Health Officer.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors,
closets and storage spaces.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county health authority or the authority's authorized
representative.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, more than one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking,
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has the charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. Temperature of 15° Fahrenheit above the
lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
   OWNER. Any person who, along, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have the legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or,
      (2)   Shall have the charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, admini-
strator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any
such person thus representing the OWNER shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this chapter and with the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
to it, to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PLUMBING. Gas pipes, gas burning equip- ment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, water pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents and other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single, habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage.
RUBBISH also shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or other under the control of
the owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground to another structure, or to any utility system on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   Whenever the words, DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING
UNIT and PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
('74 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67)
§ 153.02 ACCESS BY OWNER.
   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof or
the owner's agent or employee access to any part of the dwelling or dwelling
unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making repairs
or alterations necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter or with
any lawful rule, regulation or order issued pursuant to this chapter.
('74 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 HIGHER STANDARDS PREVAIL.
   (A)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance or code of the city existing on August 2, 1967, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people shall prevail.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found in conflict
with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the city existing on August
2, 1967, which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of
the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
('74 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   The Health Officer is authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and
premises located within the city in order that the Officer may safeguard the
health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of the general public.
   (B)   For the purpose of making the inspections required by division (A)
above, the Health Officer is authorized to enter, examine and survey, at all
reasonable times, all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
The owner or occupant of each dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming unit, or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Health Officer free access to the
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of inspection, examination and survey.
('74 Code, § 13-15) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the Health Officer determines there are reasonable grounds to
believe there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any
rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Health Officer shall give
notice of the alleged violation to the person responsible therefor, as provided
in division (A)(4) below. The notice shall:
   (1)   Be put in writing;
   (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
   (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
   (4)   Be served upon the owner, the owner's agent or the occupant, as the
case may require. The notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon the
owner, agent or occupant:
      (a)   If a copy of it is served upon the owner, agent or occupant
personally; or
      (b)   If a copy is sent by registered mail to the owner's, agent's or
occupant's last-known address; or
      (c)   If a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice; or
      (d)   If the owner, agent or occupant is served with the notice by any
other method authorized or required under the laws of the state.
   (B)   The notice given pursuant to division (A) above may contain an outline
of remedial action which, if taken, will cause compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and with rules and regulations adopted pursuant to it.
('74 Code, § 13-16) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 HEARING.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to it may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Health Officer.
      (1)   The person desiring a hearing shall file in the office of the
Health Officer a written petition requesting the hearing and setting forth a
brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the
notice of violation was served.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Health Officer shall set a time
and place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
      (3)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show why the notice should be modified or withdrawn.
   (B)   The hearing authorized by division (A) above shall begin not later
than ten days after the day on which the petition was filed. However, upon
application of the petitioner, the Health Officer may postpone the date of the
hearing for a reasonable time beyond the ten-day period if, in his or her
judgement, the petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for the
postponement.
   (C)   The proceedings at the hearing held pursuant to division (A) above,
including the findings and decision of the Health Officer, shall be summarized,
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Health Officer. The record also shall include a copy of every notice or
order issued in connection with the matter. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Health Officer may seek relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction, as provided by state law.
   (D)   After a hearing held pursuant to this section, the Health Officer
shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice of violation, depending on his or
her finding as to whether the provisions of this chapter and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to it have been complied with. If the Health
Officer sustains or modifies the notice, it shall be deemed an order.
   (E)   Any notice of violation served pursuant to this chapter automatically
shall become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed in the
office of the Health Officer within ten days after the notice is served.
   (F)   After a hearing pursuant to this section, in the case of any notice
suspending any permit required by this chapter or by any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant to it, when the notice has been sustained by the Health
Officer, the permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which
as been suspended by a notice shall be deemed automatically revoked if a
petition for a hearing is not filed in the office of the Health Officer within
ten days after the notice is served.
('74 Code, § 13-17) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer finds an emergency, within the scope of
this chapter, exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health, the Health Officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order
reciting the existence of the emergency and requiring the action be taken as he
or she deems necessary to meet the emergency.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the order shall
be effective immediately.
   (C)   Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply with it
immediately, but upon petition to the Health Officer, shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible.
   (D)   After the hearing and depending upon his order finding as to whether
the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
to it have been complied with, the Health Officer shall continue the order in
effect, modify it or revoke it.
('74 Code, § 13-18) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 AUTHORITY OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   The Health Officer is authorized to make and, after a public hearing
has been held in accordance with the laws governing the conduct of public
hearings by the Health Officer, to adopt the written rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
However, the rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall file with the City Clerk a certified copy of
all rules and regulations which he or she may adopt. The rules and regula-
tions shall have the same force and effect as the provisions of this section
and the penalty for violation of them shall be the same as the penalty for
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 13-19) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67)
UNFIT DWELLINGS
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION; CONDEMNATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for condemnation and placarding of them shall be carried out
in compliance with the requirements established in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 13-27) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 BASIS FOR CONDEMNATION.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit found to have any of the following defects
shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be so designated and
placarded by the Health Officer:
   (A)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, insanitary, unsafe or
vermin-infested it creates a serious hazard to the health of safety of the
occupants or public;
   (B)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public;
   (C)   One which, because of its general condition or location, is insanitary
or otherwise dangerous to the health of safety of the occupants or the public.
('74 Code, § 13-28) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 VACATION OF PREMISES.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation and so
designed and placarded by the Health Officer shall be vacated within a
reasonable time as ordered by the Health Officer.
('74 Code, § 13-29) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITION AGAINST HABITATION.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as unfit
for human habitation again shall be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from, and the placard is removed by, the Health Officer.
The Health Officer shall remove the placard whenever the defect upon which the
condemnation and placarding was based has been eliminated.
('74 Code, § 13-30) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF PLACARD.
   No person shall deface or remove the placard posted by the Health Officer
pursuant to this chapter from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been
condemned as unfit for human habitation and placarded as such, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
('74 Code, § 13-31) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25 HEARING.
   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning and
placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Health Officer
under the procedure set forth in §
153.06.
('74 Code, § 13-32) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 153.35 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the requirements established in this
subchapter.
('74 Code, § 13-43) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 PLUMBING.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to water and sewerage systems approved by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below, shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within the room
and which is fully equipped with bath and toilet facilities in good working
condition and properly connected to water and sewerage systems approved by the
Health Officer.
   (C)   Each dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below, shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a person within
the room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition and properly connected
to water and sewerage systems approved by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Each kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower required under
the provisions of this section shall be properly connected with bath hot and
cold water lines.
('74 Code, § 13-44) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67; Am. Ord. 804, passed 11-5-68)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 WATER HEATER.
   Each dwelling shall have supplied water-heating facilities which are
properly installed, are maintained in a safe and good working condition, are
properly connected with the hot water lines required under the provisions of §
153.36 (D) and are capable of heating water to such a temperature as to permit
an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink,
lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than 120°
Fahrenheit. The supplied water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting
the requirements of this section when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating
facilities required by this subchapter are not in operation.
('74 Code, § 13-45) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67)
§ 153.38 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities, the type and location of which shall be ar approved by the Health
Officer.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers; the type and location of them shall be as approved
by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish
containers required by division (A) above.
   (D)   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage storage containers required by division (B) above. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply the facilities or containers
for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four dwelling units
and for all dwelling units located on premises where more than four dwelling
units share the same premises. In all other cases it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant to furnish the facilities or containers.
('74 Code, § 13-46) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.39 EGRESS.
   Each dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level, a required by the laws of the state and
the city.
('74 Code, § 13-47) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.40 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. Each foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be
reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof, shall be capable of
affording privacy and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Windows and doors. Each window, exterior door and basement hatchway
shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof and shall be
kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (C)   Stairways and porches. Each inside and outside stair, each porch and
each appurtenance thereto shall be constructed to be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Plumbing. Each plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be
properly installed and maintained in a good sanitary working condition, free
from defects, leaks and obstructions.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Each water closet compartment floor surface and
bathroom floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied equipment and facilities. Each supplied facility, piece of
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter shall be constructed
or installed so it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in a satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Removal of facilities. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any
service, facility, equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to
be moved from, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or
occupied by him or her, except for the temporary interruption necessary while
actual repairs or alterations are in process or during temporary emergencies
when discontinuance of service is approved by the Health Officer.
('74 Code, § 13-48) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 SANITATION.
   (A)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy.
   (B)   Each occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (C)   Each owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (D)   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
('74 Code, § 13-49) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Each occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises.
   (B)   Each occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than
one dwelling unit shall be responsible for extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested.
   (C)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rat-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
('74 Code, § 13-50) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67)
   (E)   Each basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or other device that will
effectively prevent their entrance.
('74 Code, § 13-63) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.43 LIGHT; HEAT; VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein which does not
comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 13-57) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 WINDOWS AND SKYLIGHTS.
   (A)   Each habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors.
      (1)   The minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room.
      (2)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any
habitable room and the light-obstruction structures are located less than three
feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, the window shall not be deemed to face directly outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
      (3)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the
top of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of the room.
   (B)   Each habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can be easily opened or another device that will adequately ventilate the room.
The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to at
least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window size
as required in division (A) above, except where there is supplied some other
device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Each bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the light
and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions (A) and
(B) above, except no window or skylight shall be required in adequately
ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a ventilation
system which is kept in continuous operation and is approved by the Health
Officer.
('74 Code, § 13-58) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 SCREENS.
   (A)   During that portion of each year when the Health Officer deems it
necessary for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects, every
door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall be furnished
with screens and a self-closing device and every window or other device with
openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation likewise
shall be furnished with screens. Screens shall not be required during the
period in rooms deemed by the Health Officer to be located high enough in the
upper stories of buildings as to be free from insects and in rooms located in
areas of the city which are deemed by the Health Officer to have so few insects
as to render screens unnecessary.
   (B)   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply the
service.
('74 Code, § 13-59) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 OUTLETS AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   Where there is electric service available from power lines which are
not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, each habitable room of the
dwelling shall contain at least two separate floor- or wall-type electric
convenience outlets, or one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-
type electric light fixture.
   (B)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room
and public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling- or wall-type
electric light fixture.
   (C)   Each outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall be
maintained in a good and safe working condition and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner.
('74 Code, § 13-60) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.47 HEATING FACILITIES.
   Each dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly installed,
are maintained in a safe and good working condition and are capable of safely
and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at
least 70° Fahrenheit at a distance of three feet above floor level, under
ordinary minimum winter conditions.
('74 Code, § 13-61) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48 LIGHT IN HALLWAYS AND STAIRWAYS.
   Each public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing five or
more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Each public hall
and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and containing
not more than four dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located
light switches controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on
when needed, instead of full-time lighting.
('74 Code, § 13-62) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
SPACE; USE; LOCATION
§ 153.60 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
requirements of this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 13-70) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.61 FLOOR AREA.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for each additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be
calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, each room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space. Each room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant
shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
('74 Code, § 13-71) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.62 ROOM ARRANGEMENT.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms shall
have a room arrangement so access to a bathroom or water closet compartment
intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by
going through another sleeping room, nor shall the room arrangement be so
access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another sleeping
room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
('74 Code, § 13-72) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.63 CEILING HEIGHT.
   At least half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have a ceiling
height of at least seven feet and the floor area of that part of any room where
the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered as part of
the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the purpose of
determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
('74 Code, § 13-73) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.64 CELLAR SPACE.
   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
('74 Code, § 13-74) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.65 BASEMENT SPACE.
   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
   (A)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
   (B)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the minimum
window area sizes as required in this subchapter;
   (C)   The required minimum window area is located entirely above the grade
of the ground adjoining such window area; and
   (D)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under this subchapter, except where there is supplied
some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Health
Officer.
('74 Code, § 13-75) (Ord. 780, passed 8-1-67) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $750 and imprison-
ment not to exceed six months. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1 and 1-2-1.1) ('74 Code, § 13-20)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Compliance
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Lot size and setback requirements
   
154.04   Additions
   
154.05   Zoning
   
154.06   Fees
   
154.07   Caretaker
Licenses and Permits
   
154.15   Building permit
   
154.16   License required
   
154.17   Plan to accompany application
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the licensee and person in charge of a mobile
home park to comply fully with the provisions of the state Mobile Home Park Act
of 1987, ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq., now in effect or as hereafter
amended.
(Ord. 1098, passed 6-28-91)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy for sleeping or other residence
purposes any mobile home which has been rendered immobile by the removal of
wheels or placing it on a foundation or on the ground unless the mobile home
complies with all construction,  wiring, plumbing, sewer and other regulations
applicable to single family dwellings.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the federal National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which certain sites with the necessary utilities for five or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of the mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are
maintained and operated jointly.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated single-family home built in one or more
sections. The average width and/or length of the living area (excluding
garages, carports, porches, or attachments) of a modular home shall not exceed
a ratio of 3 to 1. All modular homes shall be placed in a full perimeter
foundation, extending below the frost depth. All wheels and towing devices
shall be removed. As with all residences, a modular home shall have a minimum
4/12 pitch roof with residential style siding and roofing, six-inch minimum
eave overhang, and shall have a minimum living area of not less than 900 square
feet. Modular homes shall have a yellow seal in the shape of the State of
Illinois on the electrical panel box of the home or on the inside of the
kitchen sink cabinet. Local officials may require additional items other than
the minimum state requirements such as the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) or the Building Code (BOCA). All
structures shall be placed on a permanent foundation in order that they may be
assessed as real estate.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1309,
passed 2-1-05)
§ 154.03 LOT SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   After the effective date of this section, the following restrictions shall
apply:
   (A)   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than 3,300
square feet, whether or not the mobile home is situated within a mobile home
park.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be parked or located closer than six feet from
the side lot lines within a mobile home park.
   (C)   No mobile home shall be parked or located closer than 20 feet to a
public or private street, alley or building.
   (D)   Each mobile home shall abut or face a driveway or clear, unoccupied
space of not less than 20 feet in width, which space shall have unobstructed
access to a public highway or alley.
   (E)   There shall be an open space of at least 12 feet between the sides of
every mobile home and at least 15 feet between the ends of every mobile home
and the rear lot line.
   (F)   Subject to compliance with state law and regulations and city
ordinance requirements for a mobile home park, more than one mobile home may be
erected upon a lot with another mobile home with the approval of the Zoning and
Ordinance Committee and the City Council.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1705,
passed 8-16-22) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 ADDITIONS.
   No permanent or semipermanent structure shall be affixed to any mobile home
as an addition to the mobile home, nor shall any accessory structure be
permitted on any mobile home lot except those structures designed for use with
a mobile home such as a canopy, carport or awning or any expansion unit or
other accessory structure specifically manufactured for mobile homes, unless a
permit to do so is obtained as required for the construction of a new building.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 ZONING.
   (A)   A permit or license does not relieve the applicant from securing
building permits or from complying with any zoning or other ordinance
applicable thereto.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be established in a zoning district other than an
R-4 District or a mobile home park unless it meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The mobile home must be a structure constructed and transportable
in two or more sections.
      (2)   The mobile home must have a minimum 4/12 pitch roof with
residential styling and roofing.
      (3)   The wheels and hitch must be removed and must be permanently
affixed to the ground and placed in a full perimeter foundation constructed of
concrete blocks or poured concrete extending below the frost line.
      (4)   The mobile home shall not have any skirting.
      (5)   Two non-sectional mobile homes cannot be combined to create a
single mobile home for the purposes of compliance with this section.
   (C)   After the effective date of this section no mobile home shall be
established in a zoning district other than an R-4 District or mobile home park
without first obtaining a variance as set forth in §
156.009. This section shall not be construed as requiring a variance to replace
a mobile home for which a variance has previously been obtained. However, if
any mobile home is removed from the lot other than in an R-4 District or a
mobile home park, it may not be replaced by a mobile home which does not comply
with the provisions of §
154.05(B).
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1309,
passed 2-1-05) Penalty, see §
154.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Committee, see §§
156.160 through
156.166
§ 154.06 FEES.
   An annual fee for licenses to operate a mobile home park shall be in the
amount as shall be fixed by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 CARETAKER.
   (A)   A responsible attendant or caretaker shall be in charge at all times
of the mobile home park being operated together with the licensee for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter relating to the conduct of
mobile home parks.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any but a person of good character, nor
to any corporation, if any officer thereof is not a person of good character.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to hire or keep as manager a superintendent or
person in charge of the mobile home park any person who is not a person of good
character or any person who has been convicted of a felony.
(Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 154.15 BUILDING PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other
transporting device from any mobile home or otherwise to affix the mobile home
permanently to the ground so as to prevent ready removal of the mobile home,
unless a permit to do so is obtained as required for the construction of a new
building.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section, it shall be unlawful to
establish, maintain or operate any mobile home park in the city without first
having obtained a license therefore. Application for the licenses shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk in compliance with the ordinances relating to
license applications and shall contain the name of the applicant, the location
of the proposed mobile home park and the number of mobile homes to be
accommodated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any mobile home park,
used for human habitation, upon any plot of ground in the city except in a
licensed mobile home park.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 PLAN TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   Each application for a mobile home park shall be accompanied by a plat or
sketch showing the size or location of all structures, buildings, mobile homes,
lot lines and roadways.
(Ord. 1098, passed 6-18-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1097, passed 6-18-91; Am. Ord. 1309, passed 2-1-05)
Cross-reference:
   Additional penalty provisions, see §
156.999
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Area affected
   
155.02   Variances
Plats; Plans
   
155.10   Entitlement to record
   
155.11   Taxes
   
155.12   Sales contract
   
155.13   Dedication
   
155.14   Approval of plans required
   
155.15   Plan and plat requirements
   
155.16   Plat approval pre-requisite to filing recording
   
155.17   Submission of plat; fees
   
155.18   Custody; authentication of plat
Design Requirements
   
155.30   Streets
   
155.31   Alleys and easements
   
155.32   Blocks
   
155.33   Setback; lot size
   
155.34   Public grounds
   
155.35   Improvements required; compliance
   
155.36   Water supply and distribution
   
155.37   Sanitary sewers; sewage disposal
   
155.38   Drainage facilities
   
155.39   Street construction
   
155.40   Special improvements
   
155.41   Plats
   
155.42   Public utilities
   
155.43   Installation of utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 AREA AFFECTED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to subdivision of land outside
the limits of the city and within 1½ miles of the city limits.
('74 Code, § 25-1) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.02 VARIANCES.
   Where a subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship if adhered to and where, because of topographical or
conditions peculiar to the site or surrounding conditions and in the opinion of
the Plan Commission a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
the provision, the Commission may recommend approval of a variance.
   (A)   Any variance recommended shall be entered minutes of the Commission
with the reasons therefor set forth upon which the variance is considered
justified.
   (B)   A certified copy of the minutes shall be forwarded to the City Council
for approval or rejection of the variance.
('74 Code, § 25-9) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
PLATS; PLANS
§ 155.10 ENTITLEMENT TO RECORD.
   No plans or plats of proposed subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land within
the city or in contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than 1½
miles from the city limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless
the proposed subdivision or re- subdivision shall have been approved in the
manner provided in this chapter and
Chapter 156.
('74 Code, § 21-25) (Ord. 543, passed 9-6-55)
§ 155.11 TAXES.
   All taxes and assessment on property platted must paid before a subdivision
plat may be recorded.
('74 Code, § 25-7) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.12 SALES CONTRACT.
   A copy of the subdivider's sale contract showing restrictions on land within
the proposed subdivision shall be furnished the city before final approval of
the subdivision plan. The contract shall state that the lot or lots contracted
for are subject to Chapters
150,
155 and
156. Restrictions and provisions may be included on the subdivision plat and
recorded.
('74 Code, § 25-8) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.13 DEDICATION.
   The subdivider shall furnish to the city an effective dedication of all
streets and other public spaces dedicated and of all easements provided by the
subdivision plat. Dedications shall be included on the subdivision plat and
shall be recorded.
('74 Code, § 25-10) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.14 APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED.
   No land shall be subdivided within the city or within 1½ miles of the city
and no street or public space hereafter shall be laid out within the city until
the plans of the subdivision, street or other public space shall have been
submitted to and approved by the City Council. The approval shall be in writing
or stamped on the plans. The plans shall be submitted to the Plan Commission
for its recommendations to the City Council.
('74 Code, § 25-2) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.15 PLAN AND PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   In general, the minimum requirements for plans and showing the subdivision
of land and the layout of streets and other public places shall be as follows:
   (A)   All plans submitted for approval shall be in triplicate, drawn to a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch and shall be clearly and neatly
drawn. Preliminary or tentative plans shall be submitted before the final plans
are prepared.
   (B)   All final plans shall show the proposed street lines, lot lines,
building lines and all property or subdivision boundaries.
      (1)   Final plans shall show, in accordance with an accurate land survey,
the controlling points and lines around and within the subdivision itself and
also by distance, bearings and angles, the relation of the controlling points
and lines to the other controlling survey points within or near the city.
      (2)   All survey monuments shall be indicated and there shall be at least
one permanent monument placed at each property corner of the subdivided area
and at least one at each street intersection. The monuments shall be placed
when the surveys are made and shall consist of a one-inch iron pipe driven at
least two feet into the ground and shall be encased in concrete. Any survey
monuments which are disturbed during the construction of the streets, utilities
or buildings in the subdivision, regardless of by whom, shall be replaced by
the owner or owner's agent prior to the acceptance of streets by the city.
   (C)   Sufficient topography shall be shown to indicate the natural drainage
and the probable finished grades of streets. All existing and proposed streets
and alleys and other public places shall be shown, with the width and type of
surfacing, and all other important features. Sufficient information shall be
drawn to scale on the plans to indicate the relation of the proposed streets
and other public places in the present street system of the city and the
official plan, when and after the official plan has been adopted. The
dimensions of all lots and subdivisions and re-subdivisions of lots shall be
shown.
   (D)   The proposed use of each lot, group of lots or subdivision shall be
indicated. No lot shall be proposed for a use of a classification lower than
permitted in
Chapter 156.
   (E)   The north point and scale and the names and registration numbers of
the engineers and surveyors shall be shown on the plats and plans.
   (F)   The names of the owners of record of the land being subdivided and all
adjacent land shall be shown on the plat.
   (G)   Whenever improvements are proposed within any subdivision or in any
street or other public place, detailed plans and profiles, and at least
specifications of the improvements, shall be submitted in triplicate. The plans
and specifications shall show or indicate essential details of the
improvements.
   (H)   One copy of all plats and plans, profiles and specifications shall be
filed with the City Clerk; one copy of each shall be filed with the City
Engineer and the third shall be returned to the petitioner, the approval of or
disapproval of the city clearly indicated.
   (I)   Upon completion of installation of all utilities in the subdivision,
the owner shall file a plat of the subdivision showing the exact location of
all utilities as constructed.
('74 Code, § 25-3) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.16 PLAT APPROVAL PRE-REQUISITE TO FILING RECORDING.
   (A)   Any person subdividing any piece or parcel of land, block, lot or sub-
lot, or any part thereof, in the city shall map or plat thereof and, before
recording the plat in the County Recorder's office, shall submit it in
triplicate to the Planning Commission and to the City Council for approval or
rejection. If approved, the approval shall be certified and signed by the Mayor
and attested by the City Clerk. No map or plat shall be valid or entitled to be
recorded until it shall have been so approved.
   (B)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given until the subdivision has been officially approved.
('74 Code, § 25-4) (Ord. 838, passed 11-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.17 SUBMISSION OF PLAT; FEES.
   A recording and filing fee of $10, payable to the city, shall be presented
the City Clerk upon final approval of a plat submitted pursuant to this
chapter. Three copies of the plat meeting the requirements of County Recorder
of Deeds also shall be presented the Clerk. One copy of the plat shall be
recorded by the Clerk, one shall be returned to the owner and one shall be kept
in the city files.
('74 Code, § 25-5) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.18 CUSTODY; AUTHENTICATION OF PLAT.
   (A)   The duplicate of a major plat submitted pursuant to this subchapter
shall be kept on file with the City Clerk.
   (B)   No plat shall be approved until it has been properly certified by a
registered land surveyor and acknowledged by the owner of record.
('74 Code, § 25-6) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.30 STREETS.
   (A)   All streets shall conform in effect to the official plan, both as to
location and as to the width of the right-of-way.
   (B)   The minimum right-of-way width for any street shall be 60 feet.
   (C)   Grades of streets shall be to lowest grades feasible and no grade
shall be in excess of 5% on through streets or in excess of 10% on dead-end st
   (D)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the direct continuation of the principal streets in adjoining subdivisions
or their proper projection where adjoining property is not subdivided, insofar
as may be necessary for public requirements.
   (E)   The street and alley arrangement shall be such as to provide
opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners.
   (F)   Whenever a street is designed so it will not, at an end open into
another street, an adequate turnaround will be provided.
   (G)   At street intersections, lot corners shall be rounded off.
('74 Code, § 25-22) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.31 ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS.
   The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be 20 feet. Where
alleys are not provided, ten-foot easements shall be provided along lot lines
or across lots where necessary for electric and telephone services and 20-foot
easements where necessary for water and sewer mains. Adequate easements shall
be provided for storm sewers or surface drainage.
('74 Code, § 25-23) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.32 BLOCKS.
   No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet between street lines. Blocks over
800 feet in length shall have one crosswalk, not less than ten feet in width,
situated near the center of the block.
('74 Code, § 25-24) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.33 SETBACK; LOT SIZE.
   No lot shall be subdivided nor indicated for sale as business or industrial
lots, except at places designated for these uses in
Chapter 156 or the city zoning map. The front street line of all business lots
shall be places not less than 54 feet from the center of the street on which
they front. All lots shall be sufficiently wide and deep to permit full
conformity with
Chapter 156.
('74 Code, § 25-25) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.34 PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   Each subdivision plat shall designate areas as may be needed for school
sites, park sites and other public lands in conformity with the official plan
of the city. Land so designated may not be used for any other purposes for one
year following the approval of the plat. If the land is acquired by purchase or
condemnation by the appropriate board or commission within one year after the
approval, it may be used in any manner consistent with the provisions of this
code and other applicable city ordinances.
('74 Code, § 25-26) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.35 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No plat of a subdivision required by this chapter shall approved
unless all streets and water and sewer mains have been installed or provision
has been made to ensure the installation in compliance with the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   No improvement, such as water supply, drainage, sewerage, sewage
disposal, gas service, electric service or lighting or grading, paving or
surfacing of streets shall be made within any subdivision by any owner or an
owner's agent until the plans for the improvements have been formally approved
by the City Council. The approval shall not be given in any instance unless the
plans and specifications and all the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this subchapter. The owner or the owner's agent shall plan and construct the
improvements in accordance with the minimum stan- dards and requirements
prescribed in this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 25-38) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.36 WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION.
   A complete water distribution system consisting of six-inch water mains,
fire hydrants at intervals of not more than 500 feet, gate valves at all main
branch connections and not more than 1,000 feet apart, and 3/4-inch service
pipe installations for each lot shall be installed. All materials and
construction shall be in accordance with city standards and specifications.
Where lots cannot, economically or for other reasons, be connected with a
public water supply system, provision must be made for a water supply suitable
for domestic use.
('74 Code, § 25-39) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.37 SANITARY SEWERS; SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   A complete sanitary sewer system consisting of eight-inch sewer mains, 42-
inch manholes and building sewers for each lot shall be installed. All
materials and construction shall be in accordance with city standards and
specifications. Where lots cannot, economically or for other reasons, be
connected with a public sewerage system, provision shall be made for adequate
sanitary sewage disposal facilities.
('74 Code, § 25-40) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.38 DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   An adequate system of storm water drainage shall be constructed and
installed consisting of graded waterways, culverts and storm sewers as are
necessary to adequately drain the subdivision and protect roadway pavements and
to prevent the accumulation of storm water at any place under normal
conditions.
   (B)   Design of drainage facilities shall be based upon the rationale method
of computing runoff using the one-hour rainfall to be expected at a ten-year
frequency.
   (C)   The time of concentration, soil infiltration rates and other variable
factors to be used in the design shall be discussed with and approved by the
City Engineer during the preliminary consideration of the subdivision.
('74 Code, § 25-41) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.39 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All streets constructed for acceptance before January 1, 1972, shall
be graded to the standard city cross section for streets with open drainage
waterways on each side, shall be surfaced with aggregate surface course Type A,
in accordance with “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,”
as promulgated by the State Division of Highways. The surface shall be 24 feet
with a compacted thickness of six inches.
   (B)   All streets constructed for acceptance after January 1972, shall be 36
feet between ditches, cored, and compacted 24-foot roadbed with screened or
crushed aggregate applied to a thickness of eight inches in accordance with the
state highway specifications referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   The owner or owner's agent shall maintain the street until it is
accepted for maintenance by the city.
   (D)   No street will be accepted for maintenance by the city until the
following requirements have been met:
      (1)   The construction of all underground utilities in the street right-
of-way have been completed;
      (2)   Street construction has been completed in accordance with the
applicable division above as of the date of request for acceptance. A higher
type or class of street construction also will be acceptable;
      (3)   Cash bond shall be set by the city Street and Alley Department for
each block. This shall be posted with the City Clerk to insure any street
repair will be maintained by the contractor or subdivider for a period of one
year.
   (E)   The request for acceptance of a street shall be addressed in writing
to the city. Approval of a subdivision plat by the City Council or the
annexation of property containing existing streets shall not constitute an
acceptance by the city of the streets, nor of the improvements constructed
therein or thereon, regardless of any by any officer, agent or employee of the
city with respect to the streets or improvements. The acceptance of streets
shall be made only by the adoption of a resolution by the Council after there
has been filed with the City Clerk a certificate by the City Engineer
certifying that all improvements required to be constructed or installed in or
upon the street have been completed fully and the construction or installation
thereof has been approved by the Engineer.
('74 Code, § 25-42) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73;
Am. Ord. 878, passed 8-7-73)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 96
§ 155.40 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   The owner or owner's agent shall not be expected to construct larger than
six-inch water mains, eight-inch sanitary sewers and 24-inch equivalent
diameter storm drainage facilities. When it is determined by the City Council
to be necessary or advisable in the public's interest to construct larger
facilities, the city may participate in the additional cost of such facilities
by agreement with the owner or owner's agent, provided funds are available and
appropriated.
('74 Code, § 25-43) (Ord. 838, passed 1-19-71; Am. Ord. 871, passed 2-20-73)
§ 155.41 PLATS.
   (A)   The city shall employ or provide a licensed engineer to review the
subdivision plat to certify that the plat is in compliance with all applicable
city, state and federal regulations.
   (B)   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the
County Recorder’s Office or have any validity until it shall have been approved
in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   All plats of subdivisions, after the plats have been submitted and
approved as provided in this chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of
the city and shall be filed among the records.
   (D)   The salary and all costs, including any attorneys and/or engineers
fees, incurred by the city in connection with the approval of the plat shall be
paid by the developer or subdivider.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-06)
§ 155.42 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All public utility distribution lines shall be placed in easements and
be underground. Installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance
with the applicable orders, rules and regulations, now and hereafter effective,
and filed pursuant to the Illinois Public Utilities Act, of any public utility
whose service will be required for the building with respect to the provision
of such facilities.
   (B)   All utility lines and facilities for water, sewer and gas shall be
placed in appropriate easements and entirely underground.
   (C)   Overhead utilities directly serving the subdivision that cross a
public right-of-way adjacent to the site shall be placed or relocated
underground on the opposite side of said right-of-way. Accommodation shall be
made on-site for transformers or other devices necessary to make these
improvements.
   (D)   Underground public utility distribution lines, including conduits and
cables, shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. All structures shall
be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-06)
§ 155.43 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES.
   No plat of subdivision shall be approved unless a distribution system for
water, sewer and gas utilities has been installed or provision has been made to
ensure such installation in compliance with the codes, ordinances and rules and
regulations of the city.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-06)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Interpretation
   
156.004   Definitions
   
156.005   Fees
   
156.006   Enforcement
   
156.007   Use districts
   
156.008   Non-conforming uses
   
156.009   Permanent changes
   
156.010   Accessory buildings
   
156.011   Restrictions; other provisions
   
156.012   Zoning map
Permits and Certificates
   
156.020   Building permit
   
156.021   Certificate of compliance
   
156.022   Use permit
   
156.023   Continuance of existing uses
Off-Street Loading
   
156.035   Required; restrictions
Off-Street Parking
   
156.045   Per-vehicle space requirements
   
156.046   Nonresidential property
   
156.047   Minimum requirement for all districts
   
156.048   Reductions of space
   
156.049   Exception
   
156.050   Joint use
   
156.051   Plan
   
156.052   Special permits
   
156.053   Access to off-street parking facilities
   
156.054   Surfacing
   
156.055   Screening
A-1 Agricultural District
   
156.060   Permitted uses
   
156.061   Height
   
156.062   Lot size
   
156.063   Yard areas
   
156.064   Off-street parking
B-2 Central Business District
   
156.075   Uses
   
156.076   Conditional uses
   
156.077   Height
   
156.078   Areas
B-3 Highway Business District
   
156.090   Permitted uses
   
156.091   Height
   
156.092   Yard areas
   
156.093   Buffer area
   
156.094   Parking and loading
I-1 Light Industrial District
   
156.105   Uses
   
156.106   Height
   
156.107   Area
R-2 One-Family District
   
156.120   Use requirements
   
156.121   Height
   
156.122   Areas
   
156.123   Dwelling standards
R-3 Multiple Family District
   
156.130   Use requirements
   
156.131   Height
   
156.132   Areas
   
156.133   Dwelling standards
S-1 Slope District
   
156.140   Purpose
S-2 Airport District
   
156.150   Uses
   
156.151   Permits
Zoning Committee
   
156.160   Established; officers
   
156.161   Meetings
   
156.162   Jurisdiction
   
156.163   Appeals and review
   
156.164   Stay of proceedings
   
156.165   Variations
   
156.166   Notice
Fences
   
156.170   Fences
R-4 Manufactured Home District
   
156.180   Use requirements
   
156.181   Height
   
156.182   Areas
Special Uses
   
156.190   Authority
   
156.191   Standards
   
156.192   Conditions
   
156.193   Revocation
   
156.194   Permitted uses
   
156.195   Special uses
   
156.196   Procedure
   
156.197   Termination of special uses
Wind and Solar Renewable Energy Systems
   
156.200   Intent and purpose
   
156.201   Definitions
   
156.202   Wind and solar renewable energy systems
Propane Tanks
   
156.205   Propane tanks
Park Model Homes
   
156.215   Purpose
   
156.216   Definition
   
156.217   License
   
156.218   Consent
   
156.219   Requirements
   
156.220   Waste disposal
   
156.221   Garbage disposal
   
156.222   Permanent structures
   
156.223   Parking
   
156.224   Zoning
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the City of Pittsfield Zoning
Ordinance.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 1)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
   (A)   To divide the city into zones, or districts, restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence and other specified uses;
   (B)   To regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas and to regulate and
determine the area of open spaces surrounding the buildings;
   (C)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
specified industrial, business, residential and other uses within the areas;
   (D)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures incompatible with
the character of the districts, respectively;
   (E)   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder;
   (F)   To limit congestion in the public streets by providing for the off-
street parking and loading and unloading of vehicles;
   (G)   To provide for the gradual elimination of non-conforming uses of land,
buildings and structures and providing penalties for the violation of this
chapter;
   (H)   To lessen congestion in the streets;
   (I)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
   (J)   To provide light and air;
   (K)   To prevent overcrowding of land;
   (L)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 1)
§ 156.003 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
provisions shall be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, annul
or repeal any ordinance, rules or regulations previously adopted and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter or which shall be adopted.
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises.
   (C)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or
annual any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, except
where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than
are imposed or required by the other ordinance or easements, covenants or other
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 21)
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or use which is located on the
same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the building or
main use.
   ACCESSORY USE. See ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and
platted.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, not less than 20 feet nor more than 40 feet
wide, which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, engine rebuilding or reconditioning of
motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or fender straightening
and repair; overall painting of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline stored only in
underground tanks, kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease for operation
of automobiles are sold at retail directly to the public on the premises and
including minor accessories and services for automobiles but not including
automobile repairs and rebuilding. When the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of the motor vehicles or parts thereof, including vehicles or farm
machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to
operating condition and including the commercial salvaging and scavenging of
any other goods, articles or merchandise.
   BASEMENT. A story wholly or partly underground. Where more than half its
height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a BASEMENT shall be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used on an outdoor display. BILLBOARD does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices or
signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation for four or more persons but not exceeding 12
persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattel.
   BUILDING AREA. The space remaining after the minimum open space requirements
of this chapter have been complied with.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distances measured from the sidewalk level or
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the
deck line of a mansard roof and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof, provided that where buildings are set
back from the street line the height of the building may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
   CAR PORT. A structure attached or made a part of the main structure and
which is open to the weather on at least two sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two motor-driven vehicles.
   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses of land or structures, or both, may be
permitted within any use district, subject to the provisions of §§
156.020 through
156.023:
      (A)   Airport landing field or landing strip;
      (B)   Bus terminal, railroad passenger station or any other
transportation terminal facilities;
      (C)   Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums;
      (D)   Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching;
      (E)   Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials;
      (F)   Golf courses, public or private;
      (G)   Hospitals or sanitariums;
      (H)   Institutions for the care of the insane or feeble minded;
      (I)   Municipal or privately owned recrea- tion building or community
center;
      (J)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers, provided
there is a minimum of 100 square feet of outdoor play area for each child to be
cared for and that the play area is fenced and screened with planting from any
adjoining lot in any R district.
      (K)   Parking area, public;
      (L)   Police stations, fire stations or places for storage of municipal
equipment;
      (M)   Public administration building, audi- torium, gymnasium or any
other publicly owned structure;
      (N)   Public utility facilities, such as a filtration plant, pumping
station, heat or power plant, transformer station and the like;
      (O)   Radio and television antenna towers, commercial;
      (P)   Railroad right of way;
      (Q)   Schools, public or private;
      (R)   Telephone exchange.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two or more sides by the building.
   CURB GRADE. The established elevation of the curb in front of the building
measured at the center of the front. Where no curb grade has been established,
the city shall establish the curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of
this chapter.
   DISTRICT. A section of the incorporated area of the city for which the
regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are uniform
for each class of use permitted therein.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by three or
more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY.  A detached building designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ROW. A row of three to six attached one-family dwellings, not more
than 2½ stories in height nor more than two rooms deep.
   DWELLING, UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel designed
primarily for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage or
group of not more than five persons (excluding servants) who need not be
related by blood or marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit in
a dwelling unit.
   FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets or natural barriers.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the storage of not more than
three motor-driven vehicles, of which not more than one shall be a commercial
vehicle of not more than two tons capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair or equipment of automobiles or where the vehicles are parked or stored
for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure.
   GUEST HOUSE. A structure for human habitation containing one or more rooms
with bath and toilet facilities but not including a kitchen or facilities which
would provide a complete housekeeping unit.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within the dwelling
and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof and provided no article is sold or offered for sale
except as may be produced on the premises by members of the immediate family.
Clinics, doctors offices, hospitals, barber shops, beauty parlors, dress shops,
millinery shops, real estate offices, tea rooms, tourist homes, animal
hospitals, kennels and the like shall not be deemed HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOSPITAL. An institution, open to the public, in which sick or injured
persons are given medical care or for the care of contagious diseases or
incurable patients.
   HOTEL. A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary
abiding places of people who are lodged, with or without meals, in which there
are six or more guest rooms and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public or semi-public use.
   JUNK YARD. See AUTO WRECKING YARD.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, at least four months
of age, are kept.
   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study, such as testing an
analyzing. LABORATORY does not include manufacturing of a product.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building
or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts a
street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building with not more than five guest rooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to a previous arrangement, but not open
to the public or transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building or use, with accessory buildings, including the open spaces required
by this chapter, and having its principal frontage upon a public street or
highway.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction on the side lot lines.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street and for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter lot boundary
along a street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully situated at the time of the passage of this chapter which does
not conform after the passage of this chapter with the regulations of this
section.
   NURSING HOME. A private hospital for the care of children or the aged or
informed, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but not
including facilities for the treatment of sickness, injuries or for surgical
care.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for public use.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street, used for the
temporary parking of more than four automobiles and available for public use,
whether free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile,
which has adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting
satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
   PORCH. A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall(s) of
the main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
   REST HOME. See NURSING HOME.
   SANITARIUM. See HOSPITAL.
   SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any card, cloth, paper, metal, painted glass,
wooden, plaster, stone or other sign of any kind or character placed for
outdoor advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock,
post, fence, building, structure or thing. “Placed”, as used in this
definition, shall including erecting, constructing, posting, painting,
printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or other fastening,
affixing or making visible in any manner.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there is not floor above it,
the open space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered an additional STORY for
each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   TERRACE, OPEN. A level and rather narrow plane or platform, which for the
purposes of this chapter is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main
structure and which is constructed not more than four feet in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOURIST COURT. A group of attached or detached buildings containing
individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by
automobile tourists or transients, with a garage attached or parking space
conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels or motor
lodges.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests.
   TRAILER, AUTOMOBILE. A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by
a motor vehicle to be used for human habitation or for carrying persons or
property, including a trailer coach or house trailer.
   TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE. Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate
more than one family living in an automobile house trailer.
   USE. The purpose for which land, or a building thereon, is designed,
arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided by this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. That part of the yard lying between the main building and a side
lot line and extending from the required front yard or from the front lot line,
if there is no required from yard, to the required rear year.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 3)
§ 156.005 FEES.
   Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, use permits,
certificates of compliance, variations and for appeals to the Zoning Committee
shall be established by action of the City Council from time to time. The fees
shall be paid to the City Clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 22) (Am. Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Commissioner of the city is designated as the officer
responsible for enforcing this chapter. The Commissioner shall have the power
and shall exercise the functions prescribed by state law and by terms of all
ordinances now in force or hereafter passed.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 17)
§ 156.007 USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into the following use districts:
      (1)   A-1 Agricultural;
      (2)   R-2 One-Family Dwelling;
      (3)   R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling;
      (4)   R-4 Mobile Home Dwelling;
      (5)   B-2 Central Business;
      (6)   B-3 Highway Business;
      (7)   I-1 Light Industrial;
      (8)   S-1 Slope;
      (9)   S-2 Airport.
   (B)   The boundaries of designated districts are shown upon the map made a
part of this chapter. That map is designated as the zoning map of the city. The
zoning map made a part of this chapter and on file in the office of the City
Clerk and all notations, reference and other information shown thereon are a
part of this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the zoning map
and all such notations, references and other information shown thereon were
fully set forth or described herein.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 4)
§ 156.008 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter may continue, although the use does not conform to the regulations
specified by this chapter for the district in which the land or building is
located, subject to the following conditions and specifications:
   (A)   A non-conforming use of land outside of a building shall be made to
conform to the provisions of this code within two years after adoption of this
code.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use of land or building which has ceased by
discontinuance or abandonment for a period of one year thereafter shall conform
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any nonconforming building which has been destroyed or damaged by
fire, explosion, act of God or by a public enemy to the extent of 60% or more
of its assessed valuation, thereafter shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter. Where more than 40% of the assessed value of the building remains
after the damage, the structure may be restored to the same non-conforming use
as existed before the damage.
   (D)   No non-conforming use of a building may be moved to any other part or
parcel of land upon which it was conducted at the time of the adoption of this
chapter.
   (E)   No non-conforming building shall be enlarged or structurally altered
except to make it a conforming building. A non-conforming use of a building
existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be extended throughout
the building, provided no structural alterations, except those required by
ordinance or law, are made therein and provided approval is granted by the City
Council.
   (F)   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed only to a use of
like or similar character or to a use conforming to the district in which the
property is located.
   (G)   The foregoing provisions also shall apply to non-conforming uses in
districts hereafter changed by amendment to this chapter.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the foregoing conditions and specifications, the City
Council may approve the continuance of the non-conforming use if it determines
that it is of similar character or use conforming to the district in which the
property is located.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 16) (Am. Ord. 1693, passed 2-15-22) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.009 PERMANENT CHANGES.
   (A)   Any permanent change in zoning first shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission of the city. The Commission shall recommend to the City
Council to accept or reject the proposed zoning change. Applications for
permanent changes in zoning shall be considered at a public hearing before the
Commis- sion, pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The Commission
shall make its findings of facts and recommendations to the Council within 30
days after the public hearing.
   (B)   If any person, partnership, corporation or other entity wishes to have
a permanent change in zoning on any property located within the city limits, a
description of the particular change in use that is requested is required to be
listed on the petition.
   (C)   The person, partnership, corporation or other entity making the
request, or that person's representatives, assigns or successors in interest,
shall begin that particular change in use contemplated within six months and
shall complete it within two years of the date the change is granted or the
change that is granted by the Council will be considered null and void and will
revert to the original zoning it was before the change was granted; provided,
no extension of the time limits are granted by the Council and the reversal
will not cause undue hardship to the person or other entity making the request,
or that person's representatives, assigns or successors in interest.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 20) (Ord. 1018, passed 9-20-83; Am. Ord. 1059, passed
5-5-87) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.010 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building it shall be subject to, and shall conform to all regulations of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   An accessory building may not be located nearer than six feet to any
interior lot line and not nearer than five feet to the rear lot line.
   (C)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to any main building.
   (D)   An accessory building shall not be erected before the establishment or
construction of the principal use of a building.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 14) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.011 RESTRICTIONS; OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All streets, alleys and railroad rights of way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed in the same zone as the property
immediately abutting the alleys, streets or railroad rights of way. Where the
center line of a street or alley serves as a district boundary, the zoning of
the street or alley, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed
the same as that of the abutting property up to the center line.
   (B)   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, no shall any building or land be used
for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located.
   (C)   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein
established for the district in which the building is located, except
penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flag poles,
chimneys, smoke stacks, radio and television aerials or antennas, wireless
masts, water tanks or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed.
   (D)   No structure may be erected to exceed by more than 25 feet the height
limits of the district in which it is located, except that aerials or antennas
designed to aid home television reception may be erected to a height not to
exceed 60 feet from the ground level, provided the aerial or antenna is
attached to the building or erected in the rear yard area.
   (E)   No building or structure other than a building for conditional use
shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered,
except in conformity with the area regulations of the district in which the
building is located.
   (F)   No space for which the purpose of a building or dwelling group has
been counted or calculated as part of a rear yard, side yard, front yard, court
or other open space required by this chapter may, be reason of a change in
ownership or otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a
yard, court or other open space requirement of or for any other building.
   (G)   An open terrace, but not including a roofed- over porch or terrace,
may occupy a front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has
depth of not less than 15 feet. A one-story bay window may project into a front
yard not more than three feet. Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may
project over the minimum required side yard not more than 18 inches.
   (H)   The minimum yards or other open spaces, including lot areas per family
required by this chapter for each and every building existing at the time of
passage of this chapter or for any building hereafter erected shall not be
encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other
building.
   (I)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide
dwelling units shall be located on a lot, as defined in §
156.003, and in no case shall there be more than one such building on one lot
unless otherwise provide din this chapter.
   (J)   Any separate tract, the title of which was of record at the time of
the adoption of this chapter, that does not meet the requirements of this
chapter for yards, courts or other areas of open space, maybe used for single
residence purposes provided the requirements for the yard, court or lot area,
width, depth or open space is within 75% of that required by the terms of this
chapter. The purpose of this provision is to permit use of recorded lots which
lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable living standards can be
provided.
   (K)   No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of
land that does not abut a public street or permanent easement of access to a
public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of 25 feet unless an
easement of lesser width was of record before the adoption of this chapter.
   (L)   No wall, fence or shrubbery shall be erected, maintained or planted on
any lot which unreasonably obstructs or interferes with traffic visibility on a
curve or at any street intersection.
   (M)   No residential structure shall be erected upon the rear or a lot or
upon a lot with another dwelling, except in a two-story garage with living
quarters on the second floor the quarters may be occupied by a servant (and the
servant's family) of the family occupying the main structure. There also may be
constructed a guest house, without kitchen, or rooms for guests within an
accessory building, provided the facilities are used for the occasional housing
of guests of the occupants of the main structure and not for permanent
occupancy by others as a housekeeping unit.
   (N)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction or designated use of any building upon which actual
construction was begun lawfully before the adoption of this chapter and upon
which building actual construction has been diligently carried on and provided
further, the building shall be completed within two years from the date of
passage and publication of this chapter.
   (O)   An area indicated on the official zoning map as a public park or
recreation area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site or
semipublic open space shall not be used for any purpose and when the use of the
area is discontinued, it automatically shall be zoned R-2, One-Family District,
until otherwise zoned.
   (P)   Any area annexed to the city shall, upon the annexation, automatically
shall be zoned R-2, One-Family District until otherwise zoned.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 5) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.012 ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map dated March 8, 2001 prepared by Benton and Associates, Inc.
is hereby adopted as the official zoning map for the city.
(Ord. 1253, passed 6-5-01)
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 156.020 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally
altered hereafter until a building permit shall be issued by the Building
Commissioner stating the building or structure, and use of land, comply with
the regulations of this chapter and all building and health laws.
      (2)   To defray partially the expense of administering this chapter, a
fee shall be collected by the Building Commissioner.
         (a)    The fee shall be determined according to the following scale:
            1.   No charge for any improvement valued at less than $1,000; and
            2.   A charge of $50 for any improvement valued above $1,000.
         (b)   If the application is filed after commencement of construction,
the fee shall be determined according to the following scale:
            1.   A charge of $50 for any improvement valued at less than
$1,000; and
            2.   A charge of $150 for any improvement valued above $1,000.
   (B)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat,
in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size of the building or structure to be erected or structurally
altered, its location on the lot and other such information as may be necessary
to provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of the
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   No building shall be constructed and no permit shall be issued for any
building on any premises not served by a sewer unless the area of the lot on
which the building is to be erected complies with the ordinance relative to
sept tanks as to size and condition of soil.
   (D)   The permit shall be valid for six months from the date of issuance and
thereafter shall be null and void unless construction has been started under
the permit during the six months period.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 18) (Ord. 922, passed 7-6-76; Am. Ord. 1292, passed 2-
17-04) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.021 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be occupied and used until a Certificate of Compliance has been issued by
the Building Commissioner. The certificate shall be issued only after the
Commissioner makes a finding that the building or structure has been erected or
structurally altered in conformance to the provisions of this chapter and other
health and building laws and in accordance with the building permit.
   (B)   A certificate shall be applied for coincident with the application for
a building permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
alterations of the building shall have been satisfactorily completed. A record
of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Commissioner and
copies shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building affected.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 18) (Ord. 922, passed 7-6-76) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.022 USE PERMIT.
   No change shall be made in the use of a building or part thereof now or
hereafter erected or structur- ally altered or in the use of land now or
hereafter occupied, without first a use permit having been issued by the
Building Commissioner. No use permit shall be issued to make a change unless it
is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter or amendments duly enacted
hereafter.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 18) (Ord. 922, passed 7-6-76) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.023 CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the continuance of the present
occupancy or lawful use of any existing building, except as may be necessary
for the safety of life and property, and except as provided in §
156.008.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 18) (Ord. 922, passed 7-6-76) Penalty, see §
156.999
OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 156.035 REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS.
   On the same lot with every building or part thereof, erected hereafter to be
used for other than exclusive dwelling purposes, or as an accessory use for
dwelling purposes, there shall be provided on the lot adequate space for motor
vehicles in order to avoid undue interference with the public use of streets or
alleys.
   (A)   The space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include a
10 x 25 foot loading space, with 15 feet height clearance.
   (B)   One space shall be provided for each 20,000 square feet or fraction
thereof of floor or lot area used for other than residence purposes.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 156.045 PER-VEHICLE SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, 180 square feet of lot or floor
area, which has a means of ingress and egress from an alley or street, shall be
deemed parking space for one vehicle. The space may be included as part of a
required open space for a front, side or rear yard.
   (B)   On corner or through lots, parking space may not be included as part
of required yards lying adjacent to either street.
   (C)   Parking spaces and access driveways required in residential districts,
when used in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be paved or
otherwise surfaced with an all-weather, dust-proof material. That part of the
driveway connecting from the curb line to the property shall be paved with
concrete or asphaltic materials.
   (D)   An accessory off-street parking space must be at least 8½ feet wide
and be at least 18 feet long, having a minimum loading area of 153 square feet,
exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, column, or work areas. On areas
surfaced, the parking stalls shall be marked with paint or other equivalent
method.
   (E)   Handicapped parking spaces must be in accord with the Illinois
Accessibility Code.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) (Am. Ord. 1262, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 1704,
passed 8-2-22) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.046 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall be hard-
surfaced and graded so as to drain all surface water to storm sewer inlets.
   (B)   When the parking areas or lots abut residential properties, there
shall be provided a wall or solid screen planting of appropriate shrubs, to a
height of not less than four feet, along the entire boundary common to the
residential and parking areas.
   (C)   Walls or solid screen planting to a height of not less than four feet
also shall be placed along the street line where a parking lot abuts a street
which provides access to adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   Lights used to illuminate the parking lots shall be arranged so as to
reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in the residential district.
   (E)   Parking spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the occupants of
the buildings or lots, their customers and visitors. Churches, theaters,
stadiums, auditoriums and other places of assembly may make arrangements for
joint use of parking spaces as hereinafter specified.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.047 MINIMUM REQUIREMENT FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
   In any district, except as noted below, every building built or structurally
altered, enlarged or increased in capacity, and every land use initiated
subsequent to the adoption of this subchapter shall be provided with minimum
off-street parking facilities as follows:
   (A)   One- and two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings. One
parking space for each dwelling unit.
   (B)   Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and fraternal homes. One parking space
for each two guest sleeping rooms.
   (C)   Hospitals. One parking space for each three hospital beds.
   (D)   Tourist homes. One parking space for each transient sleeping room
offered for tourist accommodation in addition to parking spaces required for
permanent residents of the building.
   (E)   Tourist courts and motels. One parking space for each loading unit.
   (F)   Churches auditoriums, gymnasiums, stadiums, theaters and other places
of public or private assembly with fixed seats. One parking space for each five
seats or bench seating spaces, based upon the maximum seating capacity. For the
purposes of this type of use, parking spaces already provided to meet off-
street parking requirements for stores, office buildings and industrial
establishments, or off-street parking facilities provided by the municipality,
lying within 300 feet of the place of public assembly as measured along the
lines of public access, and that normally are not in use between the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m., and are made available for other parking, may be used
to meet up to 75% of the total requirements of parking space for places of
public assembly.
   (G)   Dance halls, bowling alleys and private clubs. One parking space for
each 200 square feet of floor area, to be provided on the premises or within
300 feet of the entrance.
   (H)   Stores and other retail establishments where the uses are permitted,
except in the B-2 Central Business District. One parking space for each 300
square feet of store space, to be provided on the premises or within 200 square
feet of the entrance and off the street, except restaurants or establishments
whose primary use is to serve meals and refreshments to patrons shall provide
one parking space for each 100 square feet of floor space in the building.
   (I)   Wholesale and distributing establishments, including telephone
exchanges. One parking space for each three employees.
   (J)   Manufacturing establishments. One parking space for each five
employees, based on the greatest number of employees at work at one time, to be
provided on the premises or at other off-street locations within 1,000 feet of
the main entrance.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.048 REDUCTIONS OF SPACE.
   Parking space required under this subchapter may be reduced when the
capacity or use of a building is changed so a new use or capacity would require
less space than before the change. The reduction may not be below the standards
set forth in this subchapter.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.049 EXCEPTION.
   Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered parking areas.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.050 JOINT USE.
   The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where major
parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different hours;
provided:
   (A)   Parking spaces will be available for each use in accordance with the
standards of this subchapter; and
   (B)   The owners agree in writing any subsequent sale or division of the
property or change in its use will not interfere with the joint use of the
parking facilities.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.051 PLAN.
   A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each application for a building
permit or certificate of compliance. The completion of the improvements for
parking according to the plan shall be a prerequisite for the validity of the
permit or certificate.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.052 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The City Council may authorize a special permit to allow a parking lot in a
residence zone for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this subchapter,
subject to the following limitations:
   (A)   Public notice must be given and a public hearing held by the Zoning
Committee on the request for a special permit in the same manner in which the
notice is given and the hearing is held on a request for a variance.
   (B)   A special permit shall not be granted unless the application shows and
warrants that in the proposed development of the parking area, front and side
yards will be met and maintained.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 13) (Am. Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.053 ACCESS TO OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   Each off-street parking space shall open directly on an aisle or driveway of
such width and design as to afford adequate ingress and egress. Each off-street
parking facility shall be provided with an appropriate means of vehicular
access to a street in a forward manner only, except for single-family and
duplex residences, or to a paved alley in a manner which will least interfere
with traffic movements and shall be subject to the approval of the City Traffic
Engineer or Traffic Director. No driveway shall have a width exceeding 35 feet
or be nearer than 20 feet to an intersecting street right-of-way line,
exclusive of curb returns and shall be approved by the City Traffic Engineer.
All driveways shall be constructed with a Portland cement concrete or
bituminous asphalt approach slab extending from the edge of a roadway to the
right-of-way line. The slab shall provide for curbing and ramping of sidewalks,
where applicable, and be subject to the inspection and approval of the city.
(Ord. 1262, passed 6-4-02)
§ 156.054 SURFACING.
   All open off-street parking areas containing more than four parking spaces
shall be improved with an adequate storm water drainage system, and paved with
a wearing surface of asphaltic concrete or comparable hard-surfaced, all-
weather dustless material not less than two inches thick. All open accessory
off-street parking areas containing not more than four parking spaces shall be
surfaced and maintained in such manner as to make them dust-free.
(Ord. 1262, passed 6-4-02)
§ 156.055 SCREENING.
   (A)   All open off-street parking areas containing more than four parking
spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any
residential or institutional property by a wall, opaque fence, or densely
planted compact hedge not less than four feet in height, provided any such
screening shall be in compliance with §
156.046.
   (B)   Plantings considered acceptable for screening include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Evergreens: Oriental arborvitae, upright junipers, and Hicksii
yews;
      (2)   Shrubs: Honeysuckle, forsythia, privets, and viburnums.
   (C)   No screening shall be required:
      (1)   Along a street or alley;
      (2)   Between adjacent parking lots; or
      (3)   If a parking lot is more than 20 feet from a property line.
(Ord. 1262, passed 6-4-02)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 156.060 PERMITTED USES.
   The following regulations should apply in the A-1 Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agriculture and agricultural buildings, provided no livestock is
housed closer than 660 feet from any lot in any “R” district.
   (B)   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches, Sunday
schools, parish homes, public or parochial schools, public libraries, museums
and similar public cultural uses, located not less than 40 feet from any other
side lot line in any “R” district.
   (C)   Open air recreational uses such as parks and playgrounds.
   (D)   Essential services and public service buildings or properties, except
uses such as storage yards, warehouses, garages or other uses customarily
conducted as gainful business, provided any building is located not less than
40 feet from any “R” district.
   (E)   Cemeteries.
   (F)   Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage,
freight yards or sidings.
   (G)   Home occupations, as defined in §
156.004.
   (H)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year.
   (I)   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products where production or growth of
products takes place on the premises.
   (J)   Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational
uses, provided any principal or accessory building in connection therewith
should be located not less than 200 feet from any other lot in any “R”
district.
   (K)   Farm dwellings and single-family non-farm dwellings.
   (L)   Billboards and sign boards subject to state regulations.
   (M)   The following uses should be permitted in accordance with the
provisions and procedures indicated by the governing body upon application in
accordance with and after compliance with the procedure set forth in §§
156.020 through
156.023:
      (1)   Sanitary landfills, in accordance with other applicable
requirements and regulations, provided no landfill should be operated within
1,320 feet of any “R” district.
      (2)   Mining, loading of coal, clay, and or gravel, including equipment,
buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening, mixing or storage
subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
         (a)   No open pit or shaft should be located less than 500 feet from
any residence.
         (b)   No open pit or shaft should be located less than 1,320 feet from
any “R” district.
         (c)   All buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening,
mixing or storage should be located not less than 500 feet from any residence
and 1,320 feet from any “R” district.
         (d)   The operator of an open pit mine in complying with “The Open Cut
Land Reclamation Act,” approved August 10, 1961, as amended, should notify the
Planning Commission at the time the application for permit is made to the
Illinois Department of Conservation and should furnish for review and approval
by the Commission a plan for restoration of the land as required by the Act
before submission of the plan to the Department of Conservation. The plan
should detail briefly the steps for restoration of land to productive uses and
should include specific dates for the completion of various steps of the
restoration.
         (e)   The operator of an open pit mine should not be required to
obtain a special use permit for any tract or tracts of land estimated to be
affected by open cut mining for which a permit has been issued by the
Department of Conservation, pursuant to the provisions of “The Open Cut Land
Reclamation Act.” The tract or tracts of land should be considered an existing
special use as set forth in §
156.009, to which the special use procedure is inapplicable.
         (f)   Oil wells and the storage of crude oil, provided that no such
operation should be conducted within 200 feet of any residence and 500 feet of
any lot in an “R” district.
   (N)   Accessory use or building, as defined in §
156.004, and as regulated by §
156.010, including buildings and structures accessory to agricultural uses
including roadside stands selling produce grown on the premises, provided the
stands are located not less than 50 feet from a street or highway right-of-way.
   (O)   Water treatment plant.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 15) (Am. Ord. 1472, passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.061 HEIGHT.
   There shall be no restriction on the height of buildings in agricultural
districts.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 15)
§ 156.062 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   No lot area should be less than three acres in size.
   (B)   Public school, elementary and high school or private school having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or
public high school including religious instruction in parochial schools,
hereafter erected, should conform to the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Elementary school. Five acres plus one acre per 100 students design
capacity.
      (2)   Junior high school. Ten acres plus one acre per 100 students design
capacity.
      (3)   Senior high school. 15 acres plus one acre per 100 students design
capacity.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.063 YARD AREAS.
   No minimum yard areas should be required for agricultural use except a front
yard requirement of 80 feet along state and federal highways and a requirement
of 60 feet along state-aid highways and other public roads.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 15)
§ 156.064 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities should be provided as required or permitted in
§§
156.045 through
156.052.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 15) Penalty, see §
156.999
B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.075 USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)    Agricultural implement sales and service conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building;
   (B)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service;
   (C)   Auction rooms;
   (D)   Auditoriums;
   (E)   Automobile sales and service shops conducted within a completely
enclosed building and as one integrated business operation, but not including
automobile painting, upholstering, rebuilding or body and fender work;
   (F)   Battery and tire service stations;
   (G)   Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants;
   (H)   Billiard and pool rooms;
   (I)   Bowling alleys;
   (J)   Book binding;
   (K)   Catering establishments;
   (L)   Dance halls;
   (M)   Department, furniture and home appliance stores;
   (N)   Dressmaking establishments;
   (O)   Employment agencies;
   (P)   Expressing, baggage and transfer delivery service;
   (Q)   Public garages for storage of private passenger automobiles, but not
including repair service;
   (R)   Hand laundries;
   (S)   Hotels;
   (T)   Laboratories;
   (U)   Laundries employing facilities for not more than 1,000 pounds of dry
goods per day;
   (V)   Painting and decorating shops;
   (W)   Plumbing, heating and roofing supply and workshop;
   (X)   Printing, publishing and issuing of newspapers, periodicals, books and
other reading matter;
   (Y)   Printing shops;
   (Z)   Radio broadcasting station;
   (AA)   Recreation places;
   (BB)   Signs, outdoor advertising;
   (CC)   Tailor shops;
   (DD)   Taverns or retail sale of alcoholic liquors, subject to the
regulations of other adopted ordinances of the city;
   (EE)   Taxi service stations;
   (FF)   Telegraph service stations;
   (GG)   Theaters (indoor only);
   (HH)   Trailer sales when conducted within a building;
   (II)   Wholesale establishments, excluding a building the principal use of
which is for a storage warehouse;
   (JJ)   Manufacturing or processing which is clearly incidental to retail use
if permitted. The manufacturing or processing is limited to that which employs
not more than ten persons in the manufacturing or processing;
   (KK)   Taxidermy; operation of taxidermy business, taxidermy being the art
of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of fish, birds, or mammals to
make them appear lifelike;
   (LL)   Petroleum station.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 8) (Am. Ord. 1450, passed 3-6-12; Am. Ord. 1463,
passed 7-3-12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.076 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Automobiles or trailers (new or used) offered for sale may be stored in the
open on the rear half of the lot(s), the front portion of which is occupied by
a structure containing automobile or trailer showrooms and where no part of the
open storage area is within 50 feet of any street line. Used car sales lots,
independent of automobile salesrooms and service conducted within a building,
are not permitted.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 8) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.077 HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed
a height of three stories, nor shall it exceed 45 feet in height.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 8) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.078 AREAS.
   (A)   No front or side yards shall be required except when a building or
group of buildings abuts a residential district, a yard shall be provided on
the side of the lot abutting the residential district, the yard having a width
of not less than ten feet.
   (B)   There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than 15 feet when
abutting upon a publicly dedicated alley or public way and not less than 20
feet when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the rear of the lot. The
rear yard may be used for off- street parking and loading, as provided in §§
156.055 through
156.062.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 8) Penalty, see §
156.999
B-3 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.090 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service;
   (B)   Automobile motor repair, sales and service shop, including automobile
body repair, rebuilding and painting;
   (C)   Automobile washing, including the use of mechanical conveyors, blowers
and steam cleaning;
   (D)   Battery and tire service stations;
   (E)   Nonalcoholic beverage bottling and distributing;
   (F)   Bicycle and motorcycle, sale, repair and rental;
   (G)   Boat display, sales and service;
   (H)   Farm implement display, sales and service;
   (I)   Feed and seed store;
   (J)   Kennel;
   (K)   Motel;
   (L)   Plumbing, heating and roofing supply shops when conducted wholly
within a building;
   (M)   Pet shop or animal hospital, when conducted wholly within an enclosed
building;
   (N)   Packing plant;
   (O)   Recreation places, including bowling alley, dance hall, gymnasium,
skating rink, archery range, miniature golf course or other similar places of
amusement or entertainment when operated for pecuniary profit;
   (P)   Restaurant, non-drive-in, drive-in car service;
   (Q)   Trailer sales or rental on an open lot or within a building;
   (R)   Travel trailer transient park;
   (S)   Uses customarily incidental to any of the above and accessory
buildings when located on the same premises;
   (T)   Petroleum station;
   (U)   Lumber yard;
   (V)   Hardware store;
   (W)   Emergency services facility;
   (X)   Retail sale of tobacco and vapors;
   (Y)   Automotive parts store;
   (Z)   Self-storage unit: A non-residential structure rented on a short-term
basis to individuals or businesses for storing personal property, excluding
agricultural commodities.
   (AA)   Communication station.
      (1)   Radio communication station. A set of equipment necessary to carry
on communication via radio waves, including a receiver or transceiver, an
antenna, and ancillary equipment necessary to operate them.
      (2)   Wireless communication facility. A facility containing
communication towers and/or antennas and any related equipment for the purpose
of transmitting or receiving electromagnetic radio frequency waves.
      (3)   Wired communication facility. A facility containing wired
communication systems; including telephone networks, cable television, or
internet access and fiber-optic communication.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 9) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 7-
3-12 Am. Ord. 1475, passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. 1541, passed 5-5-15; Am. Ord.
1544, passed 6-2-15; Am. Ord. 1590, passed 9-19-17; Am. Ord. 1644, passed 10-
15-19; Am. Ord. 1660, passed 7-7-20; Am. Ord. 1678, passed 6-15-21) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.091 HEIGHT.
   No building or structure should exceed three stories or 35 feet in height.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 9) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.092 YARD AREAS.
   No building or structure should be constructed or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the building:
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot upon which a building is constructed should have
a front yard of not less than 35 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yard is required, except for a lot which abuts an
“R” district or upon an alley separating this district from an “R” district.
There should be provided a side yard equal to half the front yard required in
the abutting “R” district, but in no case less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There should be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
provided, a one-story accessory building may be located thereon, except for the
five feet adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley line, for the
storage of motor vehicles and unloading and loading of vehicles under roof.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 9) (Ord. 956, passed  10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.093 BUFFER AREA.
   On lots abutting an “R” district, there should be provided a 20-foot wide
planting strip extending the length of the lot adjoining the “R” district,
planted with trees and shrubs to provide a dense screen at maturity.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 9) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.094 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities should be provided as required in
§§
156.055 through
156.062.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 9) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.105 USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   Artificial limb manufacture;
   (B)   Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning and body
and fender work when done within the confines of a structure;
   (C)   Bakeries, wholesale;
   (D)   Beverage bottling and distributing stations;
   (E)   Blacksmith shop;
   (F)   Box manufacture;
   (G)   Broom manufacture;
   (H)   Building equipment, building materials, lumber, coal, sand and gravel
yard, and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment
of public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of a similar
nature;
   (I)   Bus line shops and garages;
   (J)   Canvas goods fabrication;
   (K)   Carpet and rug cleaners;
   (L)   Carting, express hauling or storage yards;
   (M)   Cement block manufacture, when done wholly within a building;
   (N)   Chick hatcheries;
   (O)   Cleaning and dyeing establishments;
   (P)   Clothing and dress manufacture;
   (Q)   Creameries;
   (R)   Drapery and bedding manufacture;
   (S)   Electrical appliance and electronic instrument assembly;
   (T)   Food processing and dehydrating for human consumption;
   (U)   Furniture manufacture and upholstering;
   (V)   Grain elevators;
   (W)   Greenhouses, wholesale growers;
   (X)   Heating and sheet metal fabrications;
   (Y)   Ice cream and ice manufacture;
   (Z)   Laundries that have more than 1,000 pounds daily capacity;
   (AA)   Laboratories for scientific experiments;
   (BB)   Machine shops and metal products manufacture, when not equipped with
heavy punch presses, drop forges, screw machines, riveting machines or any
other equipment which may create vibrations or noise disturbing to adjacent
property occupants;
   (CC)   Plastic product manufacture, but not including the processing of the
raw materials;
   (DD)   Printing, binding and publishing of periodicals, books and reading
matter;
   (EE)   Printing of tags, forms, calendars and other products for commercial
use;
   (FF)   Public utility electric substations and distri- bution centers, gas
regulation centers and underground gas holder stations;
   (GG)   Storage or household goods;
   (HH)   Storage and sale of automobiles, trailers, farm implements and
equipment and other similar equipment on an open lot;
   (II)   Storage and warehouses;
   (JJ)   Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks, each of 50,000
gallons or less capacity, but only after the location and protective measures
have been approved by local governing officials;
   (KK)   Stone, marble and granite grinding and cutting;
   (LL)   Telephone exchange;
   (MM)   Tool and die shops;
   (NN)   Truck or bus storage yard, but not including truck terminals;
   (OO)   Upholstering;
   (PP)   Window shade manufacture;
   (QQ)   The manufacture of cosmetics and pharma- ceuticals;
   (RR)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: Bone, cellophane,
canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, furs, glass, hair, horn, tanned
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals, or stones, shell,
textiles, wood (excluding planing mills) and yarns;
   (SS)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or any other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
   (TT)   Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated without
creating objectionable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes or vapor, and that
is a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining properties;
   (UU)   Packing plant.
   (VV)   Satellite communication: retail and service.
   (WW)   Salvage and recycling; operation of a recycling collection and
distribution center for ferrous and non-ferrous metals, paper and plastic.
Salvage of vehicles for parts and oil recycling or recycling of any hazardous
waste material is prohibited.
   (XX)   Animal shelter. A facility which will be used to house or contain
animals for their care and welfare that is owned, operated, or maintained by a
nongovernmental entity including, but not limited to, a humane society or
animal welfare organization.
   (YY)   Health care provider. Any individual, institution, or agency that
provides health services to health care consumers.
   (ZZ)   Educational facility.
   (AAA)   Commercial office building.
   (BBB)   Feed mill.
   (CCC)   Commercial vehicle, trailers and equipment washing. Including the
use of mechanical conveyors, dryers, blowers, and steam cleaning.
   (DDD)   Dance studio and banquet hall.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 10) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78; Am. Ord. 1259, passed
1-15-02; Am. Ord. 1428, passed 2-8-11; Am. Ord. 1438, passed 8-2-11; Am. Ord.
1468, passed 10-2-12; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 6-2-15; Am. Ord. 1566, passed 7-19-
16; Am. Ord. 1623, passed 2-5-19; Am. Ord. 1690, passed 1-4-22; Am. Ord. 1698A,
passed 6-21-22) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.106 HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed
a height of two stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height except as
provided in §
156.011.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 10) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.107 AREA.
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be no minimum depth for front yards.
   (B)   Side yard. There shall be no minimum depth for side yards, except
where the property is adjacent to an “R” District, then there shall be a side
yard of not less than ten feet on the side nearest to the residential lot. The
parking of private automobiles may be permitted within the side yard areas, but
not closer than five feet to any lot zoned for residential use.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts an “R”
district, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than 30 feet,
and not storage of materials or equipment or the parking of automobiles shall
take place within the ten feet closest to any residential lot(s).
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 10) (Ord. 956, passed 10-3-78) Penalty, see §
156.999
R-2 ONE-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 156.120 USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   One-family dwellings;
   (B)   Home occupations as provided in this chapter;
   (C)   Truck gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is
involved and when not operated for profit;
   (D)   Conditional uses, subject to the provisions of §
156.009;
   (E)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year. An application for a building permit must be on file
with the City Clerk and the buildings shall not be used for habitation;
   (F)   Accessory buildings;
   (G)   One sign on each lot not exceeding 12 square feet in area, pertaining
to the lease or sale of the building or premises on which the sign is located;
   (H)   Automobile parking space;
   (I)   Nursing or rest home.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this section or resists
the enforcement of its provisions shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than $150 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each day a violation continues
or is permitted to continue shall be a separate offense.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 6) (Am. Ord. 1531, passed 1-6-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.121 HEIGHT.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged to exceed a height of 2½ stories,
nor shall it exceed 35 feet.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 6) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.122 AREAS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with the building structure or
enlargement:
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than 25 feet.
      (1)   Where lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage between two
intersecting streets are developed with buildings having front yards with a
variation of not more than 15 feet in depth, the average of the front yards
shall establish the minimum front yard depth for the entire frontage.
      (2)   In no case shall a front yard of more than 50 feet be required.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   On interior lots there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than six feet, and a combined total of side yards of not
less than 15 feet.
      (2)   On corner lots the side yard require- ment shall be the same as for
interior lots, except there shall be maintained a side yard of not less than
ten feet on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon
which the building or structure maintains frontage and, except in the case of a
reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a setback from the side street
of not less than 50% of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of the
corner lots, but the setback need not exceed 15 feet. No accessory building on
the reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the
adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet to the side lot
line of the adjacent lot.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less than 25 feet.
   (D)   Lot area. Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 7,500 square feet and a width
at the established building line of not less than 60 feet; provided that, where
a lot having less area and width but is a single tract and the title thereof
has been recorded before passage of this section, the tract may be improved
with a single-family dwelling provided all yards and open spaces are within 75%
of those required by the terms of this chapter and provided the total lot area
is not less than 5,000 square feet.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards, provided no buildings are
closer to the lot lines than six feet and that on a corner lot, accessory
buildings shall not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to the
abutting streets. No more than two accessory buildings shall be constructed on
any residential property zoned R-2 One-Family District or R-3 Multiple-Family
District. An accessory building shall not be attached to a main building or
another accessory building for the purpose of reducing the total number of
buildings on a lot.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 6) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 5-15-07; Am. Ord. 1451,
passed 3-6-12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.123 DWELLING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any R-2 one-family
district shall have a total ground floor area of not less than 920 square feet,
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages and other spaces that are
not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes, except rooms intended for the purposes which are “roughed in” and are
to be completed within a reasonable time may be considered in computing the
ground floor areas.
   (B)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected in any R-
2 one-family district shall have a total floor area, measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, of not less than 1,200 square feet, including utility
rooms but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages and other spaces
that are not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or
sleeping purposes, except rooms intended for such purposes that are “roughed
in” and are to be completed within a reasonable time may be considered in
computing the ground floor areas.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 6) Penalty, see §
156.999
R-3 MULTIPLE FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 156.130 USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Permitted uses:
   (A)   Row dwellings containing three or more family units;
   (B)   Multiple dwellings and apartments;
   (C)   Boarding or lodging houses;
   (D)   Nursing or rest home;
   (E)   Clubs, lodges or fraternal organizations when not operated for profit.
   (F)   Temporary buildings, tool trailer or construction trailer used for
construction purposes for a period not to exceed one year; an application for a
building permit must be on file with the City Clerk and the building shall not
be used for habitation.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this section or resists
the enforcement of its provisions shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than $150 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each day a violation continues
or is permitted to continue shall be a separate offense.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 7) (Am. Ord. 1530, passed 1-6-15)
§ 156.131 HEIGHT.
   No building hereafter shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed 2½
stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 7) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.132 AREAS.
   No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
hereafter shall be erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with the structure or
enlargement:
   (A)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. On interior lots there shall be a side yard on each side of
a main building of not less than six feet and a combined total of side yards of
not less than 15 feet. On corner lots the side yard on the intersecting street
side shall be not less than ten feet, except in the case of a reversed corner
lot where there shall be a side yard on the street side of the corner lot of
not less than 50% of the front yard required in the lots in the rear of the
corner lot. No accessory building on the reversed corner lot shall project
beyond the front yard line required on the key lot in the rear, not be located
nearer than six feet to the side lot line of the key lot.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet for
interior lots nor less than 15 feet for corner lots.
   (D)   Lot area. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as
a multiple dwelling, apartment or row dwelling or more than two dwelling units
shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than 1,500 square feet.
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered in the R-3 multiple
family district shall have a total lot area of less than 6,000 square feet,
except one-family dwellings may be erected or structurally altered on lots
having an area of not less than 4,00 square feet and a width at the established
building line of not less than 40 feet.
   (E)   Courts. No inner court or courts completely surrounded on all sides by
a building shall be permitted. Outer courts are permitted, provided their depth
is no greater than their width.
   (F)   Accessory buildings. The same regulations shall apply as required in §
156.123. No more than two accessory buildings shall be constructed on any
residential property zoned R-2 One-Family District or R-3 Multiple-Family
District. An accessory building shall not be attached to a main building or
another accessory building for the purpose of reducing the total number of
buildings on a lot.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 7) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 5-15-07; Am. Ord. 1451,
passed 3-6-12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.133 DWELLING STANDARDS.
   All multiple family dwelling units hereafter erected, converted or
reconstructed shall contain not less than 300 square feet of usable floor area,
exclusive of basements, cellars, unfinished attics, open porches and garages.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 7) Penalty, see §
156.999
S-1 SLOPE DISTRICT
§ 156.140 PURPOSE.
   The S-1 Slope District is designed to allow proper use of land having a
cross slope which exceeds 12% and to prevent encroachment into the district
which will unduly increase storm water runoff and damage. Within the S-
1 district, the following regulations should apply:
   (A)   Any slope area, the average cross slope of which exceeds 18%, should
be subject to a special use exception which should be in conformity with the
applicable comprehensive county or community plan.
   (B)   Any slope area, the average cross slope of which is less than 12%,
should be considered suitable for any uses permitted in an S-1 floodplain and
drainageway district.
   (C)   Any slope area, the average cross-slope of which exceeds 12%, should
be considered extremely rugged and the development of this terrain should be
limited to compatible uses as follows:
      (1)   Building lots for one-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Utility easements;
      (3)   Pedestrian easements;
      (4)   Parks, playgrounds and general community open space.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 11) Penalty, see §
156.999
S-2 AIRPORT DISTRICT
§ 156.150 USES.
   No building, structure, land or premises shall be used and no building or
structure hereafter shall be constructed, erected, moved or altered except for
one or more of the following uses: aviation fields, airports, landing strips or
landing areas, provided the following conditions have been met:
   (A)   Permission from the respective owners, in the form of easements or
other suitable assignment to the owner of the airport or landing strip, of air
rights over all land in separate ownership and within the approach zones of all
runways or landing strips should be required.
   (B)   Copies of the easements or assignments of rights and an aeronautical
evaluation of the proposed facility by the Federal Aviation Administration, as
required by law, should be submitted to the Planning Commission before a permit
for establishing or enlarging a runway, landing strip or landing areas is
authorized. Heliports may be permitted after an aeronautical evaluation of the
proposed facility by the FAA, as required by law, has been reviewed by the
Commission.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.151 PERMITS.
   (A)   The governing body or duly authorized representative should have the
power to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. No open, vacant or
unimproved land should be used for any purpose other than agriculture without
first obtaining a land use permit from the governing body to be issued in
accordance with the terms of this chapter. Land use permits should be required,
but not limited, to airport landing strips, heliports or other landing areas;
   (B)   It should be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct or establish
such a structure or to plant or replant any tree or other object of natural
growth on a landing area or within 15,000 feet of the nearest boundary of a
landing area which will have or attain a height greater than five feet above
ground level for each 500 feet or fraction thereof of the distance the
structure or growth is or will be situated from the nearest boundary of a
landing area without first obtaining a permit from the Building Inspector, the
application for which should include a written statement of approval from the
Federal Aviation Administration obtained by the applicant after due notice to
the Administration.
('74 Code, Appendix A, § 12) Penalty, see §
156.999
ZONING COMMITTEE
§ 156.160 ESTABLISHED; OFFICERS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Zoning Committee. The Committee shall
consist of three members appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Committee will select one member as its chairman and another to
serve as its vice chairman, each for a term of one year and subject to
reappointment. The chairman, or in his or her absence, the vice chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (C)   The Committee shall also select one member as secretary to keep
minutes and maintain the records of the Zoning Committee.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.161 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Committee and all hearings shall be open to the
public.
   (B)   Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other
times as the Committee may determine. Meetings may be called at the request of
any member of the Committee.
   (C)   The Committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote
of each member upon every question decided by it, or, if any member is absent
or fails to vote, indicating that fact.
      (1)   A statement of the facts found by the Committee shall be included
in the minutes of each case heard or considered by it.
      (2)   The reason for recommending or denying an exception, as herein
provided, also shall appear in the minutes.
      (3)   In every instance, a statement of the facts upon which the
recommendations are based shall appear in the minutes.
      (4)   The minutes of the Committee shall be open to public examination at
reasonable hours.
   (D)   The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure, a copy of which,
and all amendments thereto, shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.162 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Committee shall hear and decide appeals from, and review any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the administrative
official charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Committee also shall hear all applications for variations
to the provisions of this chapter and shall submit its recommendations, based
upon a finding of fact, for enactment in an amended ordinance. The Committee
shall not have the power to grant a variation until a public hearing has been
held by the Zoning Committee, pursuant to notice and upon receiving the
Committee’s report with a finding of fact.
   (C)   The Committee shall have no authority to authorize change in the use
of any parcel of property or structure.
   (D)   The concurring vote of two members of the Committee shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the officer
from whom an appeal is taken or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter
in which the Committee is required to pass under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.163 APPEALS AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the Building Inspector, respecting
the interpretation of this chapter or any officer, department, board or bureau
of the city affected by a ruling of the Building Inspector concerning the
interpretation of this chapter may take an appeal to the Committee.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken within the time as shall be prescribed by
the Committee by general rules adopted by it and shall be taken by filing with
the Building Inspector and with the Zoning Committee a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof, together with the plats and exhibits as are
reasonably necessary.
   (C)   The appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the Committee. The
Building Inspector forthwith shall transmit to the Committee all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.164 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The appeal referred to in §
156.163 shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Committee after the notice of
appeal has been filed with him or her that, by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than
by a restraining order which may be granted by the Committee or by a court of
record on application, with notice to the Building Inspector, and all due
causes shown.
   (B)   The Zoning Committee shall fix a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the person appealing and to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time. At the hearing, parties of interest may appear in
person or by agent or attorney.
   (C)   The Committee may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion, ought to
be made in the premises and to that end, shall have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
§ 156.165 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council, by ordinance, may authorize in the manner provided
by law variations from the provisions of this chapter where there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of any of the provisions of this chapter relating to the use,
construction or alteration of buildings or structures in the use of land. No
variation shall be made except in a specific case and after a public hearing
before the Committee, pursuant to notice and after a report with findings of
fact of the Zoning Committee, as provided by the laws of this state.
   (B)   No variation shall be allowed:
      (1)   To permit a nonconforming use which will interfere materially with
the use of adjoining premises in conformity with the regulations applicable to
the use district in which it is located.
      (2)   To permit a billboard to be erected or maintained.
      (3)   To permit a nonconforming use in any residence district, except
where there are two or more similar nonconforming uses in the same block, a
variation may be allowed:
         (a)   To alter or remodel a family residence so as to provide for two
dwelling units therein;
         (b)   To erect a two-family dwelling in a one-family district; and
         (c)   To erect, reconstruct, alter or remodel a building in a one-
family district for an apartment.
      (4)   To permit a nonconforming manufacturing district use in a business
district:
         (a)   Unless it is an extension of a permitted nonconforming use by
enlarging a building or erecting additional buildings as part of one
establishment upon a lot or lots adjoining a lot on which the nonconforming use
exists; or
         (b)   Unless a separate tract, the title of which was of record on the
effective date of this chapter, is divided by a district boundary line, but the
variation shall be limited to the use permitted in the adjoining district and
shall not be extended more than 25 feet beyond the district boundary lines.
   (C)   Any application for a variance for permanent structure under this
section for yards and lot areas may, at the city’s discretion, be accompanied
by a survey establishing the application boundary lines by a licensed surveyor,
if the city deems such survey necessary to establish the boundary lines.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03; Am. Ord. 1313, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord. 1431,
passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 1443, passed 10-18-11)
§ 156.166 NOTICE.
   Decisions and recommendations of the Committee shall be reached only after a
public hearing and after notice has been given by mail to the application. In
addition, notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not less than 15 days nor
more than 30 days previous to the hearing. The notice shall contain the address
or location of the property for which a hearing by the Committee is sought, as
well as a brief description of the nature of the application.
(Ord. 1288, passed 9-16-03)
FENCES
§ 156.170 FENCES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, PRIVACY FENCE shall mean
a fence that blocks or obstructs view.
   (B)   Requirements in residential districts. No fences may be erected within
the city and within a residential district which do not comply with the
following specifications:
      (1)   Any fence erected in a required front yard shall be at least 50%
open, and no fence erected in a required front yard may exceed four feet in
height measured from ground level. A clearance of three inches shall be allowed
for installation purposes and shall not count in determining the height of a
fence. No privacy fence may be erected in the front of a residence on the same
zoning lot. For through lots, that yard which is used as a rear yard, and which
would normally be considered a rear yard for lots other than through lots,
shall be considered a rear yard for purposes of erecting a fence.
      (2)   Any privacy fence erected on the side street of a corner lot shall
be restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
      (3)   No fence may be erected which exceeds eight feet in height above
ground level.
      (4)   No fence may be constructed with barbed wire. All chain link fences
shall be installed with a knuckle portion of the fence at or near the ground.
No fence may be electrified. No metal fence shall have an opening hole greater
than ten square inches.
   (C)   Requirements in commercial and industrial districts.  No fence may be
erected within the city and within a commercial or industrial district which
does not comply with the following specifications:
      (1)   Any fence erected in a required front yard shall be at least 50%
open.
      (2)   Any privacy fence erected on the side street of a corner lot shall
be restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
      (3)   No fence may exceed a height of eight feet above ground level. A
clearance of three inches shall be allowed for installation purposes and shall
not count in determining the height of the fence.
      (4)   No fence may be constructed with woven wire, barbed wire, metal
spikes, or any other sharp pointed materials unless the sharp pointed materials
are erected at least six feet above ground level, but not higher than eight
feet above ground level. All chain link fences shall be installed with the
barbed portion of a fence at or near the ground unless it is installed at least
six feet above ground level. No fence may be electrified.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   No fence which exceeds four feet in height may be erected within
any residential, commercial, or industrial district unless a fence permit is
obtained from the office of the zoning administrator at a cost of $7.50. The
individual or agency actually constructing the fence shall be responsible for
obtaining the permit. No work shall start until the permit has been obtained.
Any individual or agency starting work prior to applying for, and receiving
said permit shall be subject to a $25.00 fine. This fine may be in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any additional fines or penalties that are provided for in
this chapter.
      (2)   A fence permit will become null and void after one year from the
date of issuance if the fence authorized by said permit has not been completed.
   (E)   Variances. Application for a variance of any of the above provisions
shall be made in the same manner as provided in §
156.165 for applications for variances. The notice requirements of §
156.166 shall be applicable to hearings on applications under this section. The
filing fee for an application or a petition to vary any of the above provisions
shall be the same as the fee for a building permit.
   (F)   Recreational purpose fences. Fences erected for purposes of providing
fencing around sports or recreations facilities or areas, as listed below,
shall not be subject to the height restrictions specified elsewhere in this
section, provided that such facility or area is not located within 20 feet of a
zoning lot corner formed by the intersection of any two street lines; the fence
is at least 75% open; and a fence permit is obtained. The maximum height of a
fence is listed by each sports or recreational facility or area as follows:
 
Use                                                   Maximum Height
                                                      (Feet)
Tennis court (public or private)                      12
Baseball diamond backstop (public or private)         16
Swimming pools (public)                               8
Elementary, middle or high school (public or private) 8
 
(Ord. 1262, passed 6-4-02)
R-4 MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT
§ 156.180 USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   A mobile home less than 15 years of age.
   (B)   Any uses permitted in R-2 and R-3 Districts.
   (C)   A non-motorized vehicle that meets the following criteria may be
located in an R-4 Manufactured Home District:
      (1)   The vehicle contains toilet and bathing facilities;
      (2)   The vehicle is connected to the required utilities in a permanent
fashion as prescribed in this section;
      (3)   The vehicle is intended to be occupied by the same person or
persons for at least two consecutive months at one location;
      (4)   If larger than eight feet by 32 feet, the vehicle shall be secured
as specified in the Mobile Home Tiedown Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870);
      (5)   The vehicle must be less than 15 years of age.
   (D)   Motorized recreational vehicles shall not be located in a manufactured
home community as a residence.
(Ord. 1309, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 1503, passed 10-15-13)
§ 156.181 HEIGHT.
   No building hereafter shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed 2
1/2 stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
('74 Code, Appendix A, §7) (Ord. 1309, passed 2-1-05) Penalty, see §
156.999.
§ 156.182 AREAS.
   (A)   The lot requirements set forth in §
156.132 are incorporated in this section.
   (B)   All mobile homes located in an R-4 District shall be immobilized. All
persons owning, operating, renting or leasing an existing mobile home shall
remove or cause to have removed the wheels and hitch, if designed to be
removable, or any other transportation device from the mobile home. The owner
or lessor shall permanently affix it to the ground with tie downs or other
manner approved by the city and shall place skirting completely around the
bottom of the mobile home in a manner approved by the city. All immobilized
mobile homes shall be placed on either a reinforced concrete pad or on two
reinforced concrete runners or on concrete piers approved by the city.
(Ord. 1309, passed 2-1-05)
SPECIAL USES
§ 156.190 AUTHORITY.
   The corporate authorities of the city shall have authority, according to the
procedures specified in §
156.196, to permit special uses in individual use district subject to
provisions of the individual use districts, if it finds that the proposed
location and establishment of any such use will be desirable or necessary to
the public convenience or welfare and will be harmonious and compatible with
other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of the selected site or sites.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
§ 156.191 STANDARDS.
   No special use shall be authorized unless the following findings of fact are
made:
   (A)   The establishment, maintenance and operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare;
   (B)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity, for the purposes permitted, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the adjacent
neighborhood;
   (C)   The establishment of the special use will not impede normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the zoning district;
   (D)   Adequate service utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities are in existence or are being provided;
   (E)   Adequate measures have been, or will be, taken to provide ingress and
egress designed to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
   (F)   The special use shall in all other respects conform to applicable
regulations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
§ 156.192 CONDITIONS.
   The corporate authorities of the city may impose such conditions or
restrictions upon the construction, location and operation of a special use,
including approval of a site plan for such use, as shall be deemed necessary to
secure the general objectives of this article and to protect the value of
property in the neighborhood, and to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
§ 156.193 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A change or increase in the area, bulk, function, or use of any
existing special use, or from those conditions specified by the corporate
authorities at the time of approval, shall constitute and be considered the
same as a new and distinct special use, which shall revoke the approved special
use, and shall be subject to the procedures for application, hearing, review
and approval by the corporate authorities as provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   If a special use is discontinued for a period of six months or longer,
such special use shall become null and void; and any subsequent reinstatement
of the special use shall require a new special use permit.
   (C)   If the special use is not established within one year of approval, by
ordinance, then the special use shall be null and void unless extended by the
City Council.
   (D)   Failure to comply with any conditions or restrictions which are placed
on the special use.
   (E)   If the corporate authorities determine that the continued existence of
a special use constitutes a direct threat to or encroachment upon the health,
safety, or morals of the residents of the village, so that the special use
constitutes a continuing nuisance to the public, upon notice and hearing, such
special use may be revoked.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
§ 156.194 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be the only uses permitted without a special use
permit: Churches.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
§ 156.195 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses shall be the only additional uses that would be allowed
by special use permit under the City of Pittsfield Zoning Ordinance:
   (A)   Community residences;
   (B)   Hospice/Half-Way house;
   (C)   Bed and Breakfast;
   (D)   Rest homes and nursing homes;
   (E)   Nursery school or day care nursery;
   (F)   Beauty shops and Barber shops;
   (G)   Thrift shops;
   (H)   Antique malls;
   (I)   Social service agencies, charitable organizations, health related
facilities and similar uses when not operated for pecuniary profit;
   (J)   Offices. No office shall employ more than five employees;
   (K)   Farmers’ market;
   (L)   Art gallery;
   (M)   Grass cover crop;
   (N)   Accessory building erected prior to construction of primary building;
   (O)   A cellular telephone site;
   (P)   A cellular telephone tower site;
      (1)   Definition. A CELLULAR TELE-PHONE TOWER SITE houses electronic
communications equipment along with an antenna to support cellular
communication.
      (2)   Use districts. A cellular telephone tower site is a special use in
the following use districts: A-l, B-2, B-3, I-1
   (Q)   Massage therapy center;
      Definition.  MASSAGE THERAPY is man-ual manipulation of soft body tissues
(muscle, connective tissue, tendons and ligaments) to enhance a person’s health
and well-being.
   (R)   A mobile building used for office and/or storage space.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05; Am. Ord. 1444, passed 10-18-11; Am. Ord. 1459,
passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 1591, passed 10-3-17; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 12-5-17;
Am. Ord. 1627, passed 3-19-19; Am. Ord. 1635, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1642,
passed 10-15-19; Am. Ord. 1661, passed 7-7-20; Am. Ord. 1672, passed 2-2-21;
Am. Ord. 1673A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 156.196 PROCEDURE.
   The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Applications. An application verified by the owner or authorized agent
of the owner of the property involved shall be filed with the City Clerk for
the attention of the zoning committee chairperson. City application forms shall
be used and are available at City Hall. Application for a special use permit
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $50.
   (B)   Public Hearing. Upon receipt of such verified application, the City
Clerk shall notify the Zoning Committee Chairperson, who shall schedule a
public hearing. Notice of said hearing shall be pursuant to §
156.166 of the City Code.
   (C)   Determination. The Zoning Committee shall then make its findings and
recommendations to the City Council within 30 days following the date of the
adjournment of the public hearing on each application. The City Council may
then authorize a special use as defined herein by specific ordinance, provided
the evidence presented established beyond reasonable doubt:
      (1)   That the proposed use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the
interest of public convenience, and will contribute to the general welfare of
the neighborhood or community;
      (2)   That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   That the proposed use will comply with the regulations and
conditions specified in this chapter for such use, and with the stipulations
and conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the City Council.
   (D)   Appeal. An applicant or other person who disagrees with the
determination of the City Council may file an appeal with the City Council
requesting it reconsider its determination on the special use application. Upon
receipt of said appeal, the City Council shall schedule and hold a new hearing
on the special use application. Notice of the hearing shall be made in
accordance with §
156.197. At the hearing, the City Council will consider the evidence and
witnesses presented by any objectors. The proceeding shall be transcribed by a
certified court reporter and the city shall maintain a full record of the
proceedings. After all the evidence is presented, the City Council shall make
its determination on the appeal. Any party dissatisfied with the City Council's
decision then has the right to appeal to the 8th Judicial Circuit Court.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05; Am. Ord. 1318, passed 4-19-05)
§ 156.197 TERMINATION OF SPECIAL USES.
   The special uses do not run with the property. Whenever any special use has
been discontinued for a period of six consecutive months, or whenever there is
evidence of a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a special use,
such use shall not, after being discontinued or abandoned, be re-established
without notice and public hearing as provided for the establishment of special
uses, and as approved by the City Council pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1316, passed 4-5-05)
WIND AND SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 156.200 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Providing zoning regulations to guide the installation and operation of wind
and solar renewable energy systems to be used primarily on site and to
accommodate sustainable energy production from renewable energy sources.
(Ord. 1687, passed 8-17-21)
§ 156.201 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   NET METERING. An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a renewable
energy system is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that generates energy from natural
resources such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat. As used herein, the term
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM refers to wind energy systems and solar energy systems
only.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute, and/or store energy for on-site consumption of utility power.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-INTEGRATED. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of a building.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND- MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is not
attached to another structure and is affixed to the ground, or that is attached
to an antenna, light pole or other utility facility.
   SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial solar energy system that is used to
convert sunlight to electricity for on-site or off-site use with the primary
purpose being to provide or sell wholesale or retail electricity. This system
is a permitted use only in A-1, B-3 and I-1 zoning use districts.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to reduce on- site consumption of utility power.
(Ord. 1687, passed 8-17-21)
§ 156.202 WIND AND SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General requirements. The requirements set forth in this section shall
govern the construction and/or installation of all renewable energy systems
governed by this subchapter.
      (1)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter are intended to
establish parameters by which solar energy systems may be installed in the
city. Wind energy systems and solar farm energy systems are not permitted.
Additional renewable energy installations not addressed explicitly herein may
be authorized, subject to compliance with the applicable building codes and
standards of the city.
      (2)   Use. Except as authorized by the City Council for public utility
purposes, a renewable energy system shall be accessory to the principal
permitted use of the site.
      (3)   Approvals. Approval granted to an individual property owner for a
renewable energy system under the provisions of this subchapter shall not be
construed to bar owners or tenants of any adjacent property from ordinary or
permitted building, landscaping, or other accessory improvements, even if such
improvements may diminish the function of said renewable energy system.
      (4)   Permitting and installation.
         (a)   A city building permit is required prior to the installation of
any renewable energy system. Before a building permit is issued, the following
shall be submitted to the city for review:
            1.   A site plan showing:
               a.    Name, address and phone number of property owner;
               b.    Property lines;
               c.   All structures;
               d.    Septic field;
               e.    Setback lines;
               f.    Location of all solar panels and associated equipment; and
               g.    Location of the electrical disconnect for the solar energy
system.
            2.   Evidence that the local electric utility has been informed of
the customer’s intent to install a customer-owned solar energy system.
            3.   Evidence that the site plan has been submitted to the local
fire protection district.
            4.   Evidence that the proper warning signage has been located to
inform utilities of solar panels that are present on the site.
         (b)   The owner of a renewable energy system shall ensure that it is
installed and maintained in compliance with the applicable building and safety
codes adopted by the city and any other state or federal agency of applicable
jurisdiction.
         (c)   All wiring associated with a renewable energy system shall be
underground or contained within a raceway that complements the building
materials of the principal structure and comply with the current edition of the
National Electric Code.
      (5)   Interconnection with public utilities; electric.
         (a)   Energy produced by a renewable energy system shall be utilized
on site, except for net metering as authorized by the city and other applicable
regulatory agencies required by law.
         (b)   The interconnection of any renewable energy system to the
electric distribution grid shall be in accordance with applicable regulatory
agencies required by law.
      (6)   Illumination of a renewable energy system shall be prohibited.
      (7)   No signage of attention-getting device is permitting on any
renewable energy system.
      (8)   Screening. There shall be no required physical screening for
renewable energy systems installed on roofs.
      (9)   Screening. There shall be required physical screening for renewable
energy systems installed on grade. Screening shall comply with privacy fence
ordinance, §
156.170.
   (B)   Solar energy systems.
      (1)   Authorization of use.
         (a)   Building- integrated, building-mounted solar energy systems may
be authorized administratively in all zoning districts in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and subject to approval by the city or their
designees.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Building- mounted solar energy system. A building-mounted solar
energy system may not extend above the peak roof height of the building to
which the solar energy system is affixed.
         (b)   Ground- mounted solar energy system. The maximum height of a
ground-mounted solar energy system shall be ten feet as measured from the
average grade at the base of the pole to the highest edge of the system.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Ground- mounted solar energy systems shall not be located within
the required front yard or corner side yard in any utility, water, sewer, or
other type of public easement and shall not interfere with line of site vision
of vehicle operators.
         (b)   All parts of any ground-mounted solar energy system shall be set
back at least six feet from the interior side and ten feet from rear property
lines.
         (c)   Ground- mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20% of the
required rear or backyard.
   (C)   Maintenance and removal of renewable energy systems.
      (1)   Renewable energy systems must be maintained in good repair and
operable condition at all times, including compliance with all standards in
applicable building and technical codes to ensure structural and technical
integrity of such facilities, except for maintenance and repair outages. If a
system becomes inoperable or damaged, operations must cease and be promptly
remedied.
      (2)   If the city determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this code, the city shall provide
written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall have a
period of 90 days from the date of notification to either restore the renewable
energy system to operation or to remove the system.
      (3)   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this code within the specified time period, the city may remove
or cause the removal of said facility at the property owner’s expense.
      (4)   The city may pursue any and all available legal remedies to ensure
that a renewable energy system which fails to comply with this code.
      (5)   Any delay by the city in taking enforcement action against the
owner of a renewable energy system and the owner of the property if such owner
is different from the owner of such facility, shall not waive the city’s right
to take any action at a later time.
      (6)   The city may seek to have the renewable energy system removed
regardless of the owner’s or operator’s intent for said facility, and
regardless of any permits that may have been issued or granted.
      (7)   After the renewable energy system is removed, the owner of the
subject property shall promptly restore the subject property to a condition
consistent with the property’s condition prior to the installation of the
system. Installation shall comply subject to current codes.
(Ord. 1687, passed 8-17-21)
PROPANE TANKS
§ 156.205 PROPANE TANKS.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is established for the safety and protection
of the residents of Pittsfield, Illinois. It is also designed to mitigate the
potential threat imposed by the installation of LP Gas within the city.
   (B)   Scope of this subchapter.
      (1)   This subchapter regulates:
         (a)   The installation of LP Gas within the city;
         (b)   Propane storage containers less than 125 gallons in size;
         (c)   Propane storage containers 125 to 250 gallons in size; and
         (d)   Propane storage containers 250 to 1,000 gallons in size.
      (2)   Propane tanks must be located above ground level, i.e. no
underground tanks are permitted. Propane tanks with a capacity greater than
1,000 gallons are prohibited. Business districts where bulk filling occurs are
exempt to the 1,000-gallon maximum.
   (C)   Propane tanks.  The storage of LP Gas is closed containers or portable
tanks (hereinafter tanks) on properties within the Pittsfield City Limits shall
comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Containers less than 125 gallons in size. All the above standards
are applicable with the exception of the following (note: tanks that are 30
gallons or smaller and commonly used with barbecue grills and campers/RV’s fall
under this category. Please note their exceptions below):
         (a)   City notification. The owner is not required to submit a new LP
Gas installation application or pay an LP Gas permit fee of $250 for containers
of 125 gallons or less.
         (b)   Signage. It is not necessary for the owner to list their name,
address, and phone number on tanks less than 125 gallons in size. Tanks 30
gallons or less in size need not be labeled FLAMMABLE or LP-GAS, LPG, PROPANE,
or BUTANE.
         (c)   Location. There is no minimum distance that a tank can be
mounted or placed alongside a home’s permanent structure(s). However, the tank
must be a minimum of ten feet from an intake, vent or A/C compressor and a
minimum distance of five feet from a crawl space opening, window or exhaust fan
(see container spacing diagram).
         (d)   Container foundation. Containers of 30 gallons storage capacity
or less are not required to be set on a concrete or steel foundation. However,
they must be set on a stable, level foundation.
      (2)   Containers between 125 and 250 gallons in size.
         (a)   Containers. LP Gas tanks shall fully comply with all DOT/ICC or
ASME standards.
         (b)   Signage. All tanks shall be painted and clearly marked FLAMMABLE
and either LP-GAS, LPG, PROPANE, or BUTANE in at least three-inch red letters.
Also, the owner’s name, address and phone number displayed in at least one-inch
black letters.
         (c)   Location.  Tanks must be located outside, in the back yard or
rear section of the home or business at least ten feet away from the owner’s
home, business, or permanent structures (i.e. garage, shed, etc.). Containers
must be positioned at least ten feet off any street or alley and located no
closer than 25 feet from another LP Gas container on an adjacent property.
Containers must be located at least 25 feet from a neighbor’s permanent
structures in all directions. Where physical damage from vehicles is possible
to LP Gas containers or systems of which they are a part, precautions should be
taken against such damage. No tank shall be placed in a required front yard or
in a required side yard on a corner lot in a residential area.
         (d)   Quantity. No residential property shall have more than one
container between 125 and 250 gallons in size.
         (e)   Foundation. Tanks shall rest either on a concrete or substantial
masonry support foundation. The foundation must be level. The owner must
provide sufficient corrosion protection between the container and its saddle.
         (f)   Maintenance/a ppearance. The owner shall properly maintain the
tank and assure its safe operation. The tank shall be painted with a matte
silver or flat white finish. The owner shall keep the ground below the
container clear of dry grass and weeds.
         (g)   Pipe, copper, and valves, no hose permitted unless it meets
120psi, a minimum of ¾ black iron pipe to be stubbed to the outside of the
building. All pipes and connections shall be tested and proven free of leaks by
an LP supplier prior to use by the owner. Pipes and connections shall comply
with Schedule 40 Standards (for psi below 125). Pipes and connections shall
comply with Schedule 80 Standards (for psi above 125). Galvanized pipe shall
not be used. All hose and quick connectors shall be listed for LP Gas use.
Pressure relief valves shall be listed for such use. All liquid lines 1.5 inch
or larger and vapor lines 1.25 inch or larger shall have an emergency shutoff
valve.
         (h)   Depth of pipelines. All pipelines running between any permanent
structure and the tank shall be buried underground to a minimum depth of 18
inches.
         (i)   City notification. Prior to the installation of an LP Gas tank
on any property, the owner must contact the city office, completed, and submit
a new LP Gas installation application and pay a LP Gas permit fee of $250.
         (j)   Inspection. After installation and prior to its use the owner
must notify LP supplier and have the installation inspected by a qualified LP
employee.
      (3)   Containers between 250 and 1,000 gallons in size.
         (a)   Containers. LP Gas tanks shall fully comply with all DOT/ICC or
ASME standards.
         (b)   Signage. All tanks shall be painted and clearly marked FLAMMABLE
and either LP-GAS, LPG, PROPANE, or BUTANE in at least three-inch, red letters.
Also, the owner’s name, address and phone number displayed in at least one-inch
black letters.
         (c)   Location. Tanks must be located outside, in the back yard or
rear section of the home or business at least ten feet away from the owner’s
home, business, or permanent structures (i.e. garage, shed, etc.). Containers
must be positioned at least ten feet off any street or alley and located no
closer than 25 feet from another LP Gas container on an adjacent property.
Containers must be located at least 25 feet from a neighbor’s permanent
structures in all directions. Where physical damage from vehicles is possible
to LP Gas containers or systems of which they are a part, precautions should be
taken against such damage. No tank shall be placed in a required front yard or
in a required side yard on a corner lot in a residential area.
         (d)   Quantity. No residential property shall have more than one
container between 125 and 1,000 gallons in size.
         (e)   Foundation. Tanks shall rest either on a concrete or substantial
masonry support foundation. The foundation must be level. The owner must
provide sufficient corrosion protection between the container and its saddle.
         (f)   Maintenance/a ppearance. The owner shall properly maintain the
tank and assure its safe operation. The tank shall be painted with a matte
silver or flat white finish. The owner shall keep the ground below the
container clear of dry grass and weeds.
         (g)   Pipe, copper, and valves, no hose permitted unless it meets
120psi, a minimum of ¾ black iron pipe to be stubbed to the outside of the
building. All pipes and connections shall be tested and proven free of leaks by
an LP supplier prior to use by the owner. Pipes and connections shall comply
with Schedule 40 Standards (for psi below 125). Pipes and connections shall
comply with Schedule 80 Standards (for psi above 125). Galvanized pipe shall
not be used. All hose and quick connectors shall be listed for LP Gas use.
Pressure relief valves, shut-off valves and back-flow valves shall be listed
for such use. All liquid lines 1.5 inch or larger and vapor lines 1.25 inch or
larger shall have an emergency shutoff valve.
         (h)   Depth of pipelines. All pipelines running between any permanent
structure and the tank shall be buried underground to a minimum depth of 18
inches.
         (i)   City notification. Prior to the installation of an LP Gas tank
on any property, the owner must contact the City Office, completed, and submit
a new LP Gas installation application and pay a LP Gas permit fee of $250.
         (j)   Inspection. After installation and prior to its use the owner
must notify LP Supplier and have the installation inspected by a qualified LP
employee.
         (k)   Pre-existing tanks. A lawfully established and operational use
of LP Gas tanks existing prior to the date of this subchapter may be continued,
although such use does not conform with the provisions of this subchatper
except if the continued use is a threat to public safety.
         (l)   Zoning. Propane tanks between 250 and 1,000 gallons may not be
in any district except B-2.
      (4)   No tank shall be refilled except by certified personnel.
      (5)   This subchapter is subject to the state and federal law and
regulations.
(Ord. 1688, passed 1-4-22) Penalty, see §
156.999
PARK MODEL HOMES
§ 156.215 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the placement of park model
homes within the city limits in accordance with city and state regulations, to
ensure the health, safety and welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.216 DEFINITION.
   A park model home is a trailer-type recreational vehicle designed to provide
temporary accommodation for recreation, camping or seasonal use. Park model
homes are also known as recreational park trailers. Each park model home shall
consist of a single chassis mounted on wheels, be no larger than 400 square
feet and built in compliance with ANSI housing standards.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.217 LICENSE.
   No park model home shall be placed within the city limits without first
obtaining a special use permit. Age and condition of the park model home shall
be considered in granting a special use permit.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.218 CONSENT.
   Consent from the property owner must be received by the city in writing
prior to issuing a license.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.219 REQUIREMENTS.
   All park model homes must be self-contained units and must have access to
running water or be capable of storing water. All water storage and
distribution facilities must comply with standards and regulations of the EPA
and the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.220 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Disposal of waste material must be done in accordance with EPA standards.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.221 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   Any property owner allowing a park model home must provide garbage disposal
services to the renter.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.222 PERMANENT STRUCTURES.
   No permanent structures shall be allowed around the park model home, such as
decks or fencing.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.223 PARKING.
   Any park model home location shall have sufficient space for parking another
vehicle for use by the renter.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.224 ZONING.
   Park model homes shall only be allowed in B-3, I-1, A-I zoned areas.
(Ord. 1719, passed 10-3-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter or resists
the enforcement of its provisions shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than $150 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each day a violation continues
or is permitted to continue shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on property in violation
of §§
156.180 through
156.182 . In case of violation, the city or any property owner who would be
specifically damaged by such violation may institute appropriate action or
proceedings, to enjoin a violation of §§
156.180 through
156.182.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with the provisions
of §§
156.180 through
156.182 shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $75 nor more than
$250 for each offense. Each day that a violation exists or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   Civil penalties. Violations of §
156.205 shall be triable as civil cases whenever §
156.205 or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or made declared
to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in §
156.205 or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, where no specific penalty is
provided therefore, the violation of any such provision of §
156.205 or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75 nor
more than $750. Each day that any willful violation of any provision of §
156.205 or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Criminal penalties. In lieu of proceeding under any provision of §
156.205 for a civil penalty as provided in this division, in the discretion of
the City Attorney, violations of the provisions of §
156.205 may be prosecuted in the Circuit Court by information or by complaint
sworn to as criminal offenses. Such prosecutions shall conform to the rules of
criminal procedure, and the charge shall give notice that it is a criminal
proceeding. Upon conviction, a person violating §
156.205 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750.
(‘74 Code, Appendix A, § 23) (Am. Ord. 1309, passed 2-1-05; Am. Ord. 1535,
passed 2-3-15; Am. Ord. 1688, passed 1-4-22)
CHAPTER 157: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
157.01   Scope and purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Historic Preservation Advisory Committee
   
157.04   Responsibilities and authority
   
157.05   Surveys and research
   
157.06   Criteria for the recommendation of landmark designation
   
157.07   Applications for landmarks and historic districts nominations
   
157.08   Landmark designation procedures
   
157.09   Criteria for historic district designation
   
157.10   Historic district designation procedures
   
157.11   Certificate of appropriateness
   
157.12   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
157.13   Standards for certificates of appropriateness
   
157.14   Design guidelines
   
157.15   Meeting on COA applications
   
157.16   Issuance of a certificate of appropriateness
   
157.17   Denial of a certificate of appropriateness
   
157.18   Certificate of economic hardship
   
157.19   Appeals
   
157.20   Natural destruction or demolition
   
157.21   Fees and penalties
§ 157.01 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The public interest and well-being of a community require that
guidelines and controls be used not to inhibit or constrain improvement, but
rather shape and channel activity to the benefit of the community. In this
rapidly changing world, Pittsfield can meet the needs of the future and provide
a basis for long range planning by identifying, utilizing and developing its
current assists.
   (B)   Some principal assists of Pittsfield are the tremendous amount of
history relating to the settlement of this area, the presence of Abraham
Lincoln and other notable dignitaries and the Historic District that is on the
National Register of Historic Places.
   (C)   This chapter provides a means for protecting, preserving and
perpetuating these qualities and assists and is designed to encourage property
owners to view their property with the character of the community in mind. It
encourages sensitive treatment of the historical qualities of the property by
owners in their choices of materials, procedures and standards of workmanship.
The ordinance provides a framework, the effect of which will be to capitalize
on the major assists of Pittsfield, its people, sites and structures, and which
will result in an enrichment of the quality of the community for business,
commerce, residence, education and tourism.
   (D)   The purposes of this chapter are to provide procedures and guidelines
for the preservation, enhancement and perpetuation of buildings, areas, places,
structures and other objects within the city having historical significance and
to educate the general public in the value of preservation and conservation and
to promote the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of improvements of
special character or historical interest or value in the interest of the
health, prosperity, safety and welfare of the citizens of Pittsfield by:
      (1)   Providing a mechanism to identify, preserve, enhance and perpetuate
the historic and architectural characteristics of Pittsfield, which represents
elements of the City’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural
history;
      (2)   Promoting civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of
the past as represented in Pittsfield’s landmarks and historic districts;
      (3)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of
Pittsfield’s landmarks and historic areas;
      (4)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of Pittsfield so as to
draw buyers, visitors, and shoppers, thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry, and providing economic benefit to the city;
      (5)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas, and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases in this chapter shall be
interpreted giving them the same meaning as they have in common usage and so as
to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ADDITION. Any act or process which changes one or more of the “exterior
architectural features” of a structure designated for preservation by adding
to, joining with, or increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
   AREA. A specific geographic division of the City of Pittsfield.
   BUILDING. Any structure created for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the land.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA). A certificate from the Pittsfield
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee authorizing plans for alterations,
construction, removal or demolition of a landmark or site within a designated
historic district.
   COMMITTEE. Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee.
   COMMITTEE MEMBERS. Voting members of the Pittsfield Historic Preservation
Advisory Committee.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of adding an addition to an existing structure or the
erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Pittsfield.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a landmark
or site within a historic district.
   DESIGN GUIDELINE. A standard of appropriate activity that will preserve the
historic and architectural character of a structure or area.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. The architectural and general composition
of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to the kind, color,
and the texture of the building material and the type, design and character of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area designated as a HISTORIC DISTRICT by ordinance of
the City Council, and which contains within definable geographic boundaries,
one or more landmarks and which has within its boundaries other properties or
structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural significance
to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the historic
district.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site which has been designated as a
“landmark” by ordinance of the City Council and/or The National Register of
Historic Places, pursuant to procedures prescribed herein, that is worthy of
rehabilitation, restoration, and preservation because of its historic and/or
architectural significance to the city.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as
owner or owners on the records of the Pike County Recorder of Deeds.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible and efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the property which are
significant to its historic, architectural and cultural values.
   REMOVAL. Any relocation of a structure on its site or to another site.
   REPAIR. Any change that does not require a building permit or that is not
construction, relocation or alteration.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Any change or repair in the supporting members of a
building, structure, roof or exterior walls which would expand the building in
height, width or bulk of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, buildings, fences, gazebos,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts, radio and
television antennae, including supporting towers, swimming pools, satellite
dishes, solar panels and wind generation.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation and composition. There is hereby created the Pittsfield
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee, which shall consist of seven voting
members to be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. All voting members of the committee shall be residents
of the city. One of the members shall be a member of the Main Street Design
Committee. One of the members shall be a sitting City Council member. The
remaining members shall be appointed on the basis of experience or interest in
the areas of anthropology, art, architectural history, building construction,
engineering, history, law, finance, historical and architectural preservation,
neighborhood organizing or real estate.
   (C)   Terms. Members of the committee will be appointed for terms of three
years. The initial members shall serve staggered terms as determined by lots
drawn at the first regular meeting of the committee, two shall serve for one
year, two shall serve for two years and three shall server for three years. As
each initial term expires, appointments shall be made for the full three year
term. No members shall serve more than two successive three-year terms.
Alternate members shall be appointed to serve in the absence of or
disqualification of the regular member. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term only with Mayor’s consent. Members shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Organization officers. 
      (1)   Offices shall consist of a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary
elected by the Preservation Committee who shall serve a term of one year and
shall be eligible for re-election, but no members shall serve as an officer for
more than two consecutive years.
      (2)   The Chairman shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chairman, the vice-chairman shall perform the duties of the chairman. If both
are absent, those present shall elect a temporary chairman. The secretary to
the Preservation Committee shall have the following duties:
         (a)   Take minutes of each Preservation Committee meeting.
         (b)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, meeting notices and agendas of the Preservation Committee to
the members of the Committee.
         (c)   Give notice as a provided herein or by law for all public
hearings conducted by the committee.
         (d)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Committee and expiring
terms of members.
         (e)   Prepare and submit to the city a complete record of the
proceedings before the Committee on any matter requiring Council consideration.
         (f)   Keep a record of all proceedings and actions of the Committee.
   (E)   Manner of acting.
      (1)   The Committee immediately following their appointment, shall meet,
organize, elect officers and adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business consistent with city ordinances and the laws of the State of Illinois.
Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established at the
beginning of the calendar year or at any time upon the call of the Chairman.
There shall be a minimum of four meetings per year.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Committee that could in any manner
deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use, modification,
maintenance, disposition, or demolition until such owner shall first have had
the opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the Committee, as provided
herein. The Chairman, and in his or her absence the Vice-Chairman or Acting
Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the committee shall be open to the public. The committee shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, show the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed with the City Clerk of the City of Pittsfield and shall be a
public record.
      (3)   A quorum shall consist of four members. The transaction of business
shall be made by a majority vote of those members in attendance while a quorum
is present, except that the adoption, modification or rescission of any rule or
part thereof shall require the affirmative vote of four members. Members shall
be automatically dismissed from the committee upon failing to attend at least
two-thirds of all meetings held during a one-year period. Attendance via
electronic means shall be deemed as acceptable for the attendance requirements.
      (4)   All Committee meetings are to be conducted utilizing Roberts Rules
of Order.
      (5)   The Mayor, with Council approval, may remove any member for
incompetence, neglect of duty or malfeasance in the office.
      (6)   Any member of the committee having a pecuniary or personal interest
in any matter coming before the committee shall disclose such interest to the
other members and such interest shall be made a matter of record. Any member
having such an interest shall not present or speak on such matter nor shall
vote or in any way use his/her personal influence on such matters nor shall he/
she be counted in determining a quorum for consideration of such matter.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.04 RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY.
   Subject to the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of the City
of Pittsfield, the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall
have and may exercise the following authority and responsibilities.
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
   (B)   To assist persons interested in Historic Preservation by:
      (1)   Acting in an advisory capacity in the review of plans and
specifications for alterations;
      (2)   Developing an educational program of technical information and
assistance for contractors, tradesmen, craftsmen, property owners, and others;
      (3)   To work in conjunction with the Main Street Committee in publishing
maps, newsletters, brochures and pamphlets and making presentations to inform
and educate the public concerning the historic and architectural heritage of
the City of Pittsfield;
      (4)   Developing and maintaining a library of informative material; and
      (5)   Maintaining a file of available architects, historians,
contractors, preservationists and other resource people.
   (C)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
   (D)   To hold public hearings and to review applications for construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition affecting proposed or designated landmarks
or structures or historic districts and issue or deny certificates of
appropriateness for such actions;
   (E)   To develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction, or removal of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts;
   (F)   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts. Such review shall be made and finding submitted to the City Planning
Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals prior to the date of the hearing of
these respective bodies;
   (G)   To investigate and recommend to the Pittsfield City Council the
adoption of procedures to protect properties or structures having special
historic, community or architectural value;
   (H)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of properties or
structures which have special historic, community or architectural value;
   (I)   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse and on procedures for
inclusion on the State or National Register of Historic Places:
   (J)   Applicants requesting assistance in regards to preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation and reuse and on procedures for inclusion on the
State or National Register of Historic Places may submit plans, drawings,
elevations, specifications and other information to the Committee;
   (K)   To administer on the behalf of the City of Pittsfield, upon
designation by the City Council, any property or full or partial interest in
real property, including a conservation right as that term is used in Chapter
30, paragraph 401, et.seq., Illinois Revised Statutes, which the village may
have or accept as a gift or otherwise;
   (L)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city, upon designation by
the City Council, such gifts, grants and money and may be appropriate for the
purpose of this chapter;
   (M)   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts for
technical advice;
   (N)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the City
Planning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant property and landmarks; and
   (O)   To periodically review the Pittsfield Zoning Ordinance and to
recommend to the City Planning Commission and the City Council any amendments
appropriate for the protection and continued use of historically or
architecturally significant properties.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.05 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   The Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall undertake an
ongoing survey and research effort in the city to identify neighborhoods,
areas, sites, structures, and objects that have historic, community,
architectural or aesthetic importance, interest or value. As part of the
survey, the committee shall review and evaluate any surveys and studies by any
unit of government or private organization and compile appropriate
descriptions, facts and photographs. The committee shall identify significant
structures based upon the following criteria:
   (A)   Architecturally or historically significant properties in one
identifiable neighborhood, district or geographical area of the city;
   (B)   Association with a particular person, event or historical period;
   (C)   Representation of a particular architectural style or school, or of a
particular architect, engineer, builder, designer, or craftsman;
   (D)   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the Preservation Committee to
assure a systematic survey of all significant properties within the city.
   (E)   The current survey as approved by the city, identifying all areas of
the city within the Historic District boundaries are as shown on Exhibit A and
Exhibit B in the Appendix.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.06 CRITERIA FOR THE RECOMMENDATION OF LANDMARK DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Nominations shall be made to the Pittsfield Historic Preservation
Advisory Committee on a form provided by the Committee. A filing fee may be
required.
   (B)   The Committee shall, upon investigation as it deems necessary, make a
preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure, or area
possesses the integrity of design, workmanship, materials, location, setting,
and feeling, and meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state, or nation;
      (2)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state, or nation;
      (3)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of
architecture inherently valuable for the study of a period, type, method of
construction, or use of indigenous materials;
      (4)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect, or artist
whose individual work has influenced the development of the community, county,
state, or nation;
      (5)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that make
it an established or familiar visual feature;
      (6)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including but not limited to, farmhouses, gas stations,
or other commercial structures, with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance;
      (7)   Area that has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information
important in history or prehistory.
   (C)   A preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure, or
area meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 15 days
of filing of a nomination with the Committee.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.07 APPLICATIONS FOR LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS NOMINATIONS.
   Any person, group of persons, or association, may apply to the Pittsfield
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee for the designation of a landmark or a
historic district. Applications for a nomination shall be filed at the
Pittsfield Planning Department. Persons wishing guidance or advice prior to
completing an application may contact Staff of the Planning Department. At a
minimum, the application shall include the following:
   (A)   For a landmark.
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner.
      (2)   The legal description and common street address of the property.
      (3)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation.
      (4)   Documentation that the property owner has been notified, or
consents to the application for designation.
      (5)   A list of significant exterior architectural features of the
property.
      (6)   An overall site plan and photographs of the landmark. The plan
shall also include a front, side and rear elevation drawing.
   (B)   For a historic district.
      (1)   The names and addresses of the property owners.
      (2)   A map delineating the boundaries of the area to be designated.
      (3)   A written statement describing the area and properties within the
historic district and setting forth reasons in support of the proposed
designation.
      (4)   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features, delineating whether they are contributing or non-contributing for
each property in the district.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.08 LANDMARK DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Committee shall schedule a public hearing within 60 days after the
filing of an application to the Planning Department.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons, or association, including, but not
limited to, the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee, may
request a historic landmark designation for any structure, building, or site
within the boundaries of the city which may have historic or architectural
significance as defined by the Ordinance. The Planning Department shall supply,
upon request, the application forms. Completed forms shall be submitted to the
Planning Department which shall be forwarded to the Committee for their
consideration.
      (2)   Notice of date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as
to the adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior
to the date of the hearing. A public hearing notice shall be published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city. The notice shall state the
location of the property and a statement summarizing how the proposed landmark
meets the criteria set forth in §
157.06(B).
      (3)   Upon receipt of the application, the Secretary of the Committee
shall schedule a public hearing, to be held within 45 days after preliminary
approval of application.
      (4)   During the public hearing, the Committee shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by the ordinance.
      (5)   If the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee finds at
the time that the application merits further consideration, then the Committee
may table the request until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (6)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for alteration,
construction, removal, or demolition of a proposed landmark from the date when
the nomination form is presented to the Committee until the final disposition
of the request.
   (B)   A decision shall be made within 30 days following the date of the
closing of the public hearing.
      (1)   Following the public hearing, the Secretary of the Committee shall
prepare the Committee’s evaluation, recommendation and all available
information for submission to the Pittsfield City Council within 30 days.
      (2)   If the Committee decides that the landmark should be designated, it
shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of the Committee.
      (3)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Commission’s decision.
      (4)   A simple majority vote by the Pittsfield City Council is necessary
for approval of a landmark designation. If the Pittsfield City Council approves
the application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner,
the Planning Department, the City Building Inspector, the City Clerk’s office,
and recorded with the Pike County Recorder of Deeds. If the Pittsfield City
Council denies the petition, no petitioner or applicant can file for 90 days to
the Secretary of the Committee.
      (5)   Buildings designated as historic landmarks shall be subject to
issuance of certificates of appropriateness.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.09 CRITERIA FOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Nominations shall be made to the Pittsfield Historic Preservation
Advisory Committee on a form provided by the Committee. A filing fee may be
required. The following criteria shall be utilized by the Pittsfield Historic
Preservation Advisory Committee in determining the designation of historic
districts:
      (1)   The historic district contains one or more landmarks along with
such other buildings, places, or areas within its definable geographic
boundaries which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as
landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the
landmark or landmarks located in such district;
      (2)   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards of
§
157.06(B);
      (3)   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the city, and/or;
      (4)   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic,
political, or architectural history of the nation, the state, or the community.
   (B)   A preliminary determination as to whether a district or an area meets
one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 60 days of the
filing of a nomination with the Committee.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.10 HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   The following procedure shall be used for the preliminary determination
regarding the designation of historic districts:
   (A)   Any person, groups of persons, or association, including but not
limited to, the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee, may
present to the Committee a petition requesting that a defined geographic area
be designated as an historic district. The Planning Department shall supply,
upon request, the application forms. Completed forms shall be submitted to the
Planning Department which shall forward them to the Committee for their
consideration;
   (B)   The petition shall contain the names of no less than 51% of the
property owners. Or, if lease holders, with a five year or longer leasehold
interest, are signatories to the petition then the petition shall contain no
less than 51% of the property owners and/or leaseholders;
   (C)   Notice of date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing shall
be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as to the
adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the
date of the hearing. A public notice also shall be published in a newspaper
having general circulation in the city. The notice shall state the location of
the property and a statement summarizing how the proposed landmark meets the
criteria set forth in Subsection B under Criteria for Historic Designation;
   (D)   Upon receipt of the application, the Secretary of the Committee shall
schedule a public hearing to be held within 30 days from after preliminary
approval of application;
   (E)   During the public hearing the Committee shall review and evaluate the
application according to the criteria established by ordinance;
   (F)   If the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee finds at
the time that the application merits further consideration, then the Committee
may table the request until its next regular scheduled meeting.
   (G)   Within 30 days following the public hearing, the Committee shall make
a final decision on designation and prepare the Committee’s evaluation,
recommendation, and all available information for submission to the Pittsfield
City Council.
      (1)   If the Committee decides that the proposed historic district should
be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of the
Committee.
      (2)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Committee’s decision.
      (3)   A simple majority vote by the City Council is necessary for
approval of historic preservation designation. If the City Council approves the
application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner, the
Planning Department, the City Building Inspector, the City Clerk’s office and
recorded with the Pike County Recorder of Deeds that the area has been
designated as such and that buildings located within the boundaries of the
historic district shall be subject to issuance of certificate of
appropriateness. If the City Council denies the petition, no petitioner can
file for 90 days to the Secretary of the Committee.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.11 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness (COA) issued by the Committee shall
be required before a building permit, moving permit, or demolition permit is
issued for any designated historic landmark or any building, structure, or site
or part thereof in the historic district. A COA is required if the building,
structure, or site will be altered, extended, or repaired in such a manner as
to produce a major change in the exterior appearance of such building or
structure. Such major changes include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Major changes by addition, alteration, maintenance, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, renovation, or repair;
      (2)   Any new construction and demolition in whole or in part requiring a
permit from the city;
      (3)   Alteration, removal, or addition of signage;
      (4)   Moving a building;
      (5)   Any construction, alteration, demolition, or removal affecting a
significant exterior architectural feature as specified in the ordinance
designating the landmark or historic district.
   (B)   An exception to the COA shall be made if the applicant shows to the
Committee that a failure to grant the permit will cause an imminent threat to
life, health, or property.
   (C)   No COA shall be required for the following activities:
      (1)   Installation of, or change in, storm doors, storm windows, screens,
window air conditioners, or television antennas;
      (2)   Ordinary repair and maintenance of existing exterior architectural
features which does not change the basic structural appearance of same;
      (3)   Installation and repair to walks, patios, or driveways;
      (4)   Installation of outside storage and mechanical equipment that
cannot be seen from the street;
      (5)   Installation, removal, or change in landscaping.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.12 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   Every application for a certificate of appropriateness, including building
permit, moving permit, demolition permit, plans and specifications, shall be
forwarded by the Planning Department to the Historic Preservation Advisory
Committee within 15 days following receipt of the application by the Planning
Department. In those instances where a COA is required but a building, moving,
and/or demolition permit is not, a separate application for COA shall be
submitted to the Planning Department. The application for issuance of a COA
must include:
   (A)   Street address of the property involved.
   (B)   Legal description of the property involved.
   (C)   Brief description of the present improvements situated on the
property.
   (D)   A detailed description of the construction, alteration, demolition, or
use proposed together with any architectural drawings or sketches if those
services have been utilized by the applicant and if not, a sufficient
description of the construction, alteration, demolition, and use to enable
anyone to determine what final appearance and use of the real estate will be.
   (E)   Owner’s name.
   (F)   Developer’s name, if different than Owner.
   (G)   Architect’s name, if applicable.
   (H)   Payment of the filing fee.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.13 STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   In making a determination whether to approve or deny an application for a
COA, the Pittsfield Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall be guided by
the Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for Rehabilitation” whenever
feasible, as follows:
   (A)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site environment;
   (B)   The historic character of the property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
space that characterize a property shall be avoided;
   (C)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken;
   (D)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved;
   (E)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity;
   (F)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and
other visual qualities, and where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial
evidence;
   (G)   The surface cleaning of the structures, if appropriate, shall be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible;
   (H)   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken;
   (I)   New additions, exterior alteration, or related new construction shall
not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work
shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing,
size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of
the property and its environment;
   (J)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.14 DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   Design guidelines for applying the criteria for review of Certificated of
Appropriateness shall at a minimum, consider the following architectural
criteria:
   (A)   Height. The height of any proposed alteration or construction should
be compatible with the style and character of the landmark and with surrounding
structures in a historic district;
   (B)   Proportions of windows and doors. The proportions and relationships
between doors and windows should be compatible with the architectural style and
character of the landmark;
   (C)   Relationship of building masses and spaces. The relationship of a
structure within a historic district to the open space between it and adjoining
structures should be compatible;
   (D)   Roof shape. The design of the roof, fascia, and cornice should be
compatible with the architectural style and character of the landmark;
   (E)   Landscaping. Landscaping should be compatible with the architectural
character and appearance of the landmark;
   (F)   Scale. The scale of the structure after alteration, construction, or
partial demolition should be compatible with its architectural style and
character and with surrounding structures in a historic district;
   (G)   Directional expression. Facades in historic districts should blend
with other structures with regard to directional expression. Structures in a
historic district should be compatible with the dominant horizontal or vertical
expression of surrounding structures;
   (H)   The direct expression of a landmark after alteration, construction, or
partial demolition should be compatible with its original architectural style
and character;
   (I)   Architectural Details. Architectural details including types of
materials, colors, and textures should be treated so as to make landmark
compatible with its original architectural style and character of a landmark or
historic district;
   (J)   New structures in a historic district shall be compatible with the
architectural style and design in the districts;
   (K)   Signage and signage attachments should be compatible with the
architectural character and appearance of the landmark and surrounding
structures.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.15 MEETING ON COA APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness are available from the
Planning Department. Such applications shall be completed and submitted to the
Planning Department which shall be forwarded to the Pittsfield Historic
Preservation Advisory Committee. The Committee shall schedule a public meeting
for consideration of the application within a maximum of 45 days following
receipt of the application from the Planning Department. If the Committee finds
at the time that the application merits further consideration, then the
Committee may table the request until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.16 ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   A simple majority vote by the Pittsfield Historic Preservation
Advisory Committee will be required for approval of COA designation. The
Committee shall notify the applicants of its decision within five days after
the public meeting. Upon approval of the application, the Committee shall
direct the Planning Department to issue signed COA to the applicant with copies
forwarded to the Building Inspector. The COA takes effect 14 days following
Committee approval.
   (B)   A COA shall be invalid if changes in the plans reviewed by the
Committee are necessary in obtaining a building permit or if the building
permit issued for the same work becomes invalid. The certificate of
appropriateness remains valid for the same period of validity as the building
permit.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.17 DENIAL OF A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   In the event of denial of an application for a COA, the Committee
shall notify the application in writing of the disapproval and the reasons
therefore and shall recommend changes, if any, in the proposed action that
would cause the Committee to reconsider its denial.
   (B)   Within 14 days of receipt of the notification of disapproval, the
applicant may resubmit an amended application for a COA that takes into
consideration the recommendations of the Committee. The application shall be
considered to be withdrawn if no amended application is received within the 14
days. Within 14 days of receipt of a written modified COA application, the
Committee must either issue the COA or schedule a new meeting for the appeal as
set forth below.
   (C)   The process for the resubmission of a modified COA shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The Committee shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the applicant by mailing
notice of the meeting. The mailing is to be made at least ten days prior to the
date of the meeting.
      (2)   The Chairman shall conduct the hearing and the Committee and the
applicant shall have the right to introduce evidence and cross examine
witnesses. A recorded or written transcript of the meeting shall be made and
kept.
      (3)   The Committee shall vote, announce its decision, make its
recommendation, and notify the Planning Department and the application within
five days after the conclusion of the public hearing, unless the time is
extended by mutual agreement between the Committee and the applicant.
      (4)   In the event of a denial of appeal by the Committee, the applicant
may appeal the decision to the City Council, whose decision in this matter
shall be final subject only to judicial review as provided by law.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.18 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the ordinance to the
contrary, the Committee may issue a certificate of economic hardship to allow
the performance of work for which a certificate of appropriateness has been
denied.
   (B)   An application for a certificate of economic hardship may submit any
or all of the following information in order to assist the Committee in making
its determination on the application:
      (1)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the
party from whom purchased (including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased);
      (2)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according
to the two most recent assessments;
      (3)   Real estate taxes for the previous two years;
      (4)   Remaining balance on mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if
any, for the previous two years;
      (5)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with this purchase, financing or ownership of the
property;
      (6)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any;
      (7)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive use for
the property;
      (8)   If the property is income-producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two years, itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two years, and annual cash flow before and after debt
service, if any during the same period;
      (9)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other;
      (10)   Any other information, including the income tax bracket of the
owner, applicant, or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary
for a determination as to whether the property can be reasonably used or yield
a reasonable return to present or future owners.
   (C)   If the Commission finds that without approval of the proposed work,
the property owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic return therefrom, then
the application shall be delayed for a period not to exceed 90 days. During
this period of delay, the Committee shall investigate plans and make
recommendations to the City Council to allow for a reasonably beneficial use or
a reasonable economic return, or to otherwise preserve the subject property.
Such plans and recommendations may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   A relaxation of the provisions of the ordinance;
      (2)   A reduction in real property taxes;
      (3)   Financial assistance;
      (4)   Building code modifications; and/or
      (5)   Changes in zoning regulations.
   (D)   If by the end of this 90 day period, the Committee has found that
without approval of the proposed work, the property cannot be put to a
reasonable beneficial use or the owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic
return therefrom, then the Committee shall issue a certificate of economic
hardship approving of the proposed work. If the Committee finds otherwise, it
shall deny the application for a certificate of economic hardship. The
certificate of economic hardship takes effect 14 days following Commission
approval.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.19 APPEALS.
   (A)   When a certificate of appropriateness or a certificate of economic
hardship is approved or denied for either a landmark or a structure within a
historic district, the applicant or any interested party within the approved
historic district may, within 30 days, appeal the Committee’s decision to the
City Council. The City Council may receive comments on the contents of the
record but no new mattermay be considered by the City Council. The City Council
may affirm the decision or recommend changes by a majority vote of the City
Council after due consideration of the facts contained in the record submitted
to the City Council by the Committee. The City Council may overturn the
Committee’s decision by a majority vote of a quorum of the City Council. If the
City Council decides that a certificate of economic hardship should be issued,
the Secretary shall notify the applicant and the Planning Department within
seven days of the City Council’s decision and the Planning Department shall
issue the permit with 14 days.
   (B)   If the City Council concurs with the Committee’s decision not to issue
a certificate of economic hardship, the Secretary shall notify the applicant
and the Planning Department within seven days.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.20 NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION.
   In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition of a
site within a historic preservation district or of a landmark, the owner shall
obtain a certificate of appropriateness from the Committee prior to
reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous structure may not be
required, the exterior design of the property shall be in harmony with:
   (A)   The exterior design of the structure prior to damage; and
   (B)   The character of the historic preservation district.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
§ 157.21 FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The city may establish an appropriate system of processing fees for the
review of nominations and the COAs. Any person who undertakes or causes an
alteration, construction, demolition, or removal of any nominated or designated
landmark or property within a nominated or designated landmark or designated
historic district without a COA shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon
conviction, the enforcement of any fines shall be administered under the city’s
jurisdiction and in conformance of the city ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 1532, passed 2-3-15)
CHAPTER 158: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
158.01   Purpose and scope
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
158.04   Dispute resolution
   
158.05   Indemnification
   
158.06   Insurance
§ 158.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of the
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522{'{'}6),
as amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i. through Section VI.D.1.a.v. of the Nationwide Programmatic
Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a
locally landmarked building, property, site or historic district by an
ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. a written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
State, a unity of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than 6 cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume; electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services application
submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, wither at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting, billboard, or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
§ 158.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)    Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an exiting pole owned by an entity other that the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within-the time limits a provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
appl if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the city shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the city must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the city fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30
days after ail documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in the
city’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
      Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the notice
of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less that
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment for the small
wireless facility may be located in the communications space of the city
utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the
wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of
the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms “communications
space”, “communications worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have
the meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as
published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the City may propose that
the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the
applicant shall provide Written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost Reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in the paragraph.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than 10 feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.    Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set for in §
156.165 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of
such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation dies not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with subsection d. under the section titled Application
Requirements; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201, Metra
Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility
as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, being ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§ 16-102, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act, being
ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i).
         (b)   For the purposes of the subsection, “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act, being ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve
any person from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a State-issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any
required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications
facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and the small wireless facilities the wireless
provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to the
applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider provides such
notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if is
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
§ 158.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Pike shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending
resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the city shall
allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no
more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined
upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
§ 158.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use of occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
§ 158.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability polity and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under the section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 1609, passed 7-17-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   EASEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   ENCROACHMENTS
      
VII.   TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
               Annexing a tract of land owned by Steven R. Smothers and Sandra
1081  11-7-89  D. Smothers in the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
               Section 19, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth
               Principal Meridian of Pike County
               Annexing a tract of land owned by Lewis M. Grigsby Jr. in
1087  5-15-90  Section 19, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth
               Principal Meridian of Pike County
               Annexing a tract of land owned by Larry E. Conner and Brenda M.
1091  9-18-90  Conner in Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the
               Fourth Principal Meridian of Pike County
               Annexing a tract of land owned by Hal C. Zumwalt and Ova N.
1094  3-19-91  Zumwalt in Section 13, Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the
               Fourth Principal Meridian of Pike County
               Annexing a tract of land owned by Mariam Lowry, Charles
1096  5-21-91  Ingersoll and Marshal L. Ingersoll in Section 26, Township 5
               South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian of Pike
               County
               Annexing a tract of land owned by William R. Scheiwe and Eileen
1099  6-18-91  Scheiwe in the Southwest Quarter of Section 19 in Newburg
               Township
               Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point four rods south
1103  11-19-91 from the northwest corner of Section 30, in Township 5 South,
               Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, running thence
               south as described, as requested by Phil and Janice Bauer
               Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point where the north
               boundary line of north right- of-way of U.S. Route 54 and
1114  12-1-92  Illinois Route 106 intersects with the west boundary line of
               Southwest Quarter Section 23, and continuing as further
               described, as requested by John and Eleanor Sitton
1115  12-15-92 Amending inaccurate description of the property annexed by Ord.
               114 resulting from prior inaccurate surveys
               Annexing a tract of land lying in the Northeast Quarter of
1117  1-5-93   Section 27, Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the fourth
               principal meridian, except for Tract No. 5, as requested by Area
               Disposal Service, Inc.
               Annexing a tract of land in Section 18, Township 5 South, Range
1118  2-2-93   3 West, beginning at a point South 90 degrees 00 minutes West,
               as further described, as requested by William and Brenda Bruns,
               and Glenn and Janita Summers
               Annexing a tract of land lying the Northeast Quarter of Section
               23, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal
1121  5-18-93  Meridian, beginning at the southeast corner of the Northeast
               Quarter of Section 25, as further described, as requested by the
               Pittsfield Assembly of God Church
               Annexing a tract of land lying in the Southwest corner of the
               Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 5 South, Range 3 West,
1124  8-17-93  of the Fourth Principal Meridian, thence north 3 degrees 13
               minutes 17 seconds west, as further described, as requested by
               James and Noue Filbert
               Annexing a tract of land beginning at the southwest corner of
1125  10-5-93  land owned by Elmer Criss, as further described; also annexing
               Lot 2 of Coultas Subdivision, as further described, as requested
               by Harry and Helen Wright
               Annexing Lots 1, 3, and 4 of Coultas Subdivision, as shown by
1126  11-2-93  plat recorded in Plat Book 11, Page 22, as requested by
               Genevieve Bush and Ben and Judi Schlieper
               Annexing a tract of land lying in the Northeast Quarter of the
               Northwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 5 South, Range 4 West,
1127  11-16-93 of the Fourth Principal Meridian, from an iron pipe marking the
               north quarter corner, as further described, as requested by John
               and Margaret Raftery
               Annexing a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 26, Township
               5 South of the Base Line, Range 4 West, of the Fourth Principal
1131  4-5-94   Meridian, beginning at the southwest corner of Rolling Meadows
               First Addition, as further described, as requested by Bruce and
               Robin Callender
               Annexing a tract of land, except the east 660 feet thereof,
               being the South One-half of the Southwest Quarter of the
1138  9-6-94   Southwest Quarter of Section 18, Township 5 South, Range 3 West,
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian, as further described, as
               requested by Donald and Wanda Snyder
               Annexing three tracts of uninhabited property, there being a
1140  10-4-94  vacant dwelling house and an airport situated thereon, as
               further described, and as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §7-
               1-9
               Annexing the North One-Half of the Northeast Quarter of the
               Southeast Quarter of Section 25, excepting therefrom a tract in
1141  10-18-94 the northeast corner thereof commencing at the northeast corner
               of the Southeast Quarter, as further described, as requested by
               Board of Education of Community Unit School District #10 of Pike
               and Calhoun Counties
               Annexing two tracts of uninhabited and unimproved land,
1142  11-1-94  contiguous to and owned solely by the city, as further
               described, and as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §7-1-9
               Annexing a tract of land lying in the West One-Half of the
               Southeast Quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 4 West,
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian, commencing at a point marking
1152  4-4-95   the northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast
               Quarter of Section 25, thence south 90 degrees 58 minutes 28
               seconds west, as further described, as requested by Terrance
               Callihan and Richard and Robert Smith
               Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point 2156.8 feet south
1158  6-20-95  of the northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of Section 25,
               Township 5 South, Range 4 West, of the Fourth Principal
               Meridian, as further described, as requested by Helen Twaddle
               Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast
               Quarter and part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest
1161  7-18-95  Quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range 4 West, of the
               Fourth Principal Meridian, commencing at a point 63.39 feet east
               of the center of Section 25 to the true beginning, as further
               described, as requested by Walter and Wilma Wade
               Annexing a tract of land beginning at the northwest corner of
               the six acre tract off of the north side of Lot Number 2 in the
               subdivision of the Northeast Quarter of Section 24, Township 5
1164  9-5-95   South of the Base Line, Range 4 West, of the Fourth Principal
               Meridian, as shown by plat recorded in Plat Book Volume A, Page
               19, as further described, as requested by the executor of the
               Mary Clark estate
               Annexing a tract of unimproved land owned by Steven and Linda
1167  9-19-95  Long, as requested by the Longs, in Section 19, Township 5
               South, Range 3 West, of the Fourth Principal Meridian
               Annexing a tract of unimproved land owned by Roger and Peggy
1168  10-17-95 Akers, as requested by the Akers, in Section 19, Township 5
               South, Range 3 West, of the Fourth Principal Meridian
               Annexing a tract of unimproved land owned by John and Cynthia
1174  5-7-96   Schoenherr, by David and Dawn Smith, and by Mariam Lowry, as
               requested by these owners, in Section 26, Township 5 South,
               Range 4 West, of the Fourth Principal Meridian
1186  6-3-97   Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Bruce Callender
1190  7-15-97  Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Donald and Wanda Snyder.
1192  9-2-97   Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by James E. and Donna L. Davidsmeyer.
1193  9-2-97   Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Larry and Kay Snyder.
1196  2-17-97  Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Douglas Jack White and Carol A. White.
1198  4-7-98   Annexing a certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by the City of Pittsfield.
1199  4-21-98  Adopting the Industrial Plaza Plat of the city, owned and
               requested by the City of Pittsfield.
1205  7-21-98  Annexing certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Loretta Grote.
1207  8-4-98   Annexing certain territory contiguous to the city, owned and
               requested by Bobby Lipcamon and Donna Lipcamon.
1214  1-5-99   Amending ordinance no. 1193 an annexing ordinance containing an
               incorrect legal description.
1222  8-17-99  Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
               the city, owned and requested by John Petty and Bonnie Petty.
1227  10-5-99  Amending Ordinance No. 1222, an ordinance approving for the
               annexation of certain territory contiguous to the city.
1229  10-19-99 Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
               the city, owned and requested by Cora Root.
               Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
1230  10-19-99 the city, owned and requested by Douglas Bristow and Kimberly
               Bristow.
               Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
1231  10-19-99 the city, owned and requested by Sharon Frances Lovell, Joe Tom
               Burch, Candice L. Burch and Linda G. Lovell.
               Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
1238  8-15-00  the city, owned and requested by Sharon Frances Lovell, Joe Tom
               Burch, Candice L. Burch and Linda G. Lovell.
1242  1-16-01  Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
               the city, owned and requested by Brenda Tate and David L. Tate.
               Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
1245  3-20-01  the city, owned and requested by Jeffrey K. Stark and Elizabeth
               J. Stark.
1248  5-15-01  Amending Ordinance No. 1222 pertaining to the annexation of
               certain territory contiguous to the city.
1248A 9-4-01   Amending Ordinance. No. 1222 pertaining to the annexation of
               certain territory contiguous to the city.
               Approving for the annexation of certain territory contiguous to
1255  9-18-01  the city, owned and requested by Robert E. Evans and Linda Sue
               Evans.
               Approving for the annexation of part of the northeast quarter of
1277  10-1-02  Section 26, Township 5 South of the Base Line and in Range 4
               West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, owned and requested by
               Mariam Lowry.
1282  7-15-03  Amending Ordinance No. 1226 pertaining to the annexation of
               certain territory contiguous to the city.
               Approving the annexation of a tract of land lying in the
1293  3-2-04   southeast quarter of Section 13, Township 5 South, Range 4 West
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian, owned by Grace Baptist Church.
1307  12-21-04 Approving the annexation of certain territory contiguous to the
               city, owned and requested by John Riley and Pauline Riley.
1328  11-15-05 Approving the annexation of Panther Creek.
               Approving the annexation of a tract of land lying in the
1332  2-21-06  northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 4 West
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian, owned by Vera L. Curtis as
               Trustee of the Vera L. Curtis Revocable Trust.
               Approving the annexation of part of the southeast quarter of
1333  3-7-06   Section 20 lying north of the Old Pittsfield and Detroit Public
               Road (Old Route 54 and 36) containing 83 acres, more or less, in
               Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving the annexation of a tract of land contiguous to the
1351  4-3-07   city, lying in and being a part of the Northwest Quarter of
               Section 18, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth
               Principal Meridian, owned by Pike Properties, Inc.
               Approving the annexation of a tract of land contiguous to the
1358  8-7-07   city, lying in part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20,
               Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian,
               owned by Max F. Middendorf and Brenda L. Middendorf.
               Approving the annexation of certain territory contiguous to the
               city (Lot 7, all of Lot 8, and all of Lot 2 of a subdivision in
               the North Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 19; and a
1364  11-6-07  part of Lot 5, Lot 6 and Lot 7 of a subdivision in the South
               Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 19), all in Township 5
               South, Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, owned by
               David T. McCartney, Becky L. McCartney, Greg A. Ketterman and
               Sheri L. Ketterman.
1373  4-15-08  Approving annexation of a tract of land lying in part of Outlot
               37 of Peter's Addition of Outlots.
               Approving annexation of a tract of land in and being a part of
1375  5-20-08  the Southwest Quarter of Section 13 and a part of the Southeast
               Quarter of Section 14, all in Township 5, Range 4 West of the
               Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of 14 tracts of non- contiguous territory
1384  9-2-08   in Section 16, Township 5 South, Range 3 West of the Fourth
               Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of tract of land in the Northeast Quarter
1390  11-5-08  of Section 26, Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the Fourth
               Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory in the east
1421  8-3-10   half of Lot 6 and part of Lot 7 of the subdivision of the north
               half of the southwest quarter of Section 19, Township 5 South,
               Range 3 West of the Fourth Principal meridian, being 1.82 acres.
               Approving annexation of certain non-contiguous territory lying
1424  9-21-10  in part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 22, Township 5
               South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory in the
1473  12-4-12  southeast quarter of Section 22, Township 5 South, Range 4 West
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory in the east
1479  12-4-12  three-quarters of the southwest quarter of Section 22, Township
               5 South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
1482  1-15-13  Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory known as
               the Fred Stickman property, containing approximately 18.7 acres.
               Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory in the
               southeast quarter of Section 22, Township 5 South, Range 4 West
1483  1-15-13  of the Fourth Principal Meridian; also, a tract of land in the
               east three-quarters of the southwest quarter of Section 22,
               Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving annexation of certain contiguous territory in the west
1486  2-19-13  one-half of the northeast quarter of Section 27, Township 5
               South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving the annexation of certain property described as part
1519  7-1-14   of the southeast quarter of Section 19, Township 5 South, Range
               3 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving the annexation of certain property described as part
1562  5-17-16  of the southeast quarter of Section 22, Township 5 South, Range
               4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving the annexation of certain territory described as a
1685  8-17-21  tract of land lying in and being a part of the southeast quarter
               of Section 25, Township 5 South of the Base Line, Range 4 West
               of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
               Approving the annexation of certain territory described as part
1686  9-7-21   of the southeast quarter of Section 25, Township 5 South, Range
               4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian.
              
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a right-of-way easement to United Feeds, Inc., to
1175     --          place and operate weight scales upon and beneath a portion
                     of North Street, as further described
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting the right to Illinois Rural Electric Company to
                     construct, maintain, and operate a system for the
1137     9-20-94     transmission, distribution, and sale of electric energy
                     for lighting, heating, and power purposes, for newly
                     annexed areas of the city.
                     Granting the right to Illinois Rural Electric Cooperative
1264     5-28-02     and its successors and assigns to construct, operate and
                     maintain an electric power distribution system for a
                     period of 25 years.
                     Extending the term of the electric franchise between the
                     municipality and Central Illinois Public Service Company
1331     1-3-06      (d/b/a AmerenCIPS) until February 7, 2007 and the term
                     will be renewed automatically for additional one-year
                     periods unless cancelled by either party.
                     Renewing the existing electric franchise between the
1354     4-17-07     municipality and Central Illinois Public Service Company
                     (d/b/a AmerenCIPS), and granting AmerenCIPS a term of 20
                     years for that franchise.
1476     11-26-12    Approving the City of Pittsfield Electricity Aggregation
                     Program Plan of Operation and Governance.
1524     8-5-14      Granting a fiber optic services franchise to Illinois
                     Rural Electric Cooperative.
                    
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Accepting the bid of Glen and Madelyn Orr for a tract of
1110     6-16-92     land generally located on New Salem Road, formerly used
                     for storage
                     Accepting the bid of O.B. Dell and Son, Inc., for a tract
1119     2-2-93      of land generally located north of West Washington Street,
                     formerly used for parking
                     Accepting the bid of Leecia Snyder for a tract of land
                     generally located on the Pittsfield to Griggsville highway
1156     5-16-95     directly west of Penstone Airport, but reserving to the
                     city easements for gas, water, sewer, telephone, electric,
                     cable television lines, and other utilities, adjacent to
                     the east boundary
                     Accepting the bid of the Counseling Center of Pike County
1170     1-16-96     for a tract of land referred to locally as 120 North
                     Williams Industrial Drive, generally located on West
                     Washington Street
1188     6-3-97      Authorizing acquisition of real property for airport
                     expansion by eminent domain
1197     3-17-98     Authorizing the sale of an item of personal property owned
                     by the City of Pittsfield.
                     Authorizing the sale of real property, being a part of the
1581     6-6-17      south 60 acres of the W 1/2 of the NE 1/4 of Section 27,
                     Township 5 South, Range 4 West, containing approximately
                     10 acres.
1589     9-19-17     Authorizing the sale of real property located on the 400
                     block of West Jefferson Street (PIN # 54-111-02A).
                     Authorizing the sale of real property, described as Lots 1
1616     11-6-18     and 2 in Block 2 of the original town, to Square 1838,
                     LLC.
1695     4-19-22     Authorizing the purchase of real estate for a public
                     purpose.
1701     7-5-22      Authorizing lease of municipally-owned real estate.
1723     11-19-23    Approving the exchange of real estate between the city and
                     Steven C. Rumple and Deborah L. Rumple.
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Vacating the portion of the alley between Lot 2 and Lot 3 of Peckenpaugh's
1079 9-5-89 Subdivision of Sublot 13 of Doyle and Palmer's Addition, running 81 feet west
            from Orchard Street and 20 feet north and south.
     5-15-  Vacating the portion of Susie Drive south of a line 60 feet south of the north
1086 90     right-of-way of Susie Drive and parallel to the north right-of- way, lying
            north of Lots 24 and 25 of D.C. Johnson's Subdivision, First Revision.
     10-16- Vacating the portion of the alley running east from Mississippi Street 160 feet
1093 90     to a north- south alley connecting West Washington Street and West Fayette
            Street.
            Vacating the portion of an alley being at the South Half of the alley which
1109 6-16-  runs north and south between Kespohl Street and East Griggsville Street,
     92     adjoining and abutting Lots 11 and 12 of Will's Subdivision, as further
            described in Section 19, but retaining various easements therein.
     11-16- Vacating a portion of Higbee Street, 17 feet off the south side of West Higbee
1128 93     Street between Memorial Street and Clarksville Road, but retaining various
            easements therein.
     12-6-  Vacting an alley running east and west between Lots 27 and 28 in the 600 Block
1145 94     of North Monroe Street in Carter's Addition, as further described, but
            retaining various easements therein.
            Vacating an alley running north and south between Dutton Street to the east,
1183 4-1-97 Orchard Street to the west, Gay Street to the north, and Perry Street to the
            south.
1187 - -97  Vacating a portion of Conroy Street.
1256 10-16- Vacating the east 184 feet of the east-west alley in Block 22 (south of the
     01     First Christian Church), beginning at Memorial Street.
            Vacating a portion of Shetland Drive in the northeast quarter of Section 26,
1270 8-20-  Township 5 South, Range 4 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, beginning at
     02     the southeast corner of Lot 22A of Rolling Meadows Subdivision First Addition
            (previously known as Lot 23).
1297 6-1-04 Vacating a portion of the following alleys:
          The north-south alley beginning between 500 and 510 East Griggville Street and
            ending between 515 and 612 Kespohl Street;
          The north-south alley beginning east of 530 East Griggsville Street and ending
            between 515 and 553 Kespohl Street;
          The north-south alley beginning east of 530 East Griggsville Street and ending
            between 553 and 555 Kespohl Street;
          The north-south alley beginning between 546 and 550 Griggsville Street and
            ending between 575 and 595 Kespohl Street;
          The east-west alley beginning between 612 Lincoln Street and 612 Kespohl Street
            and ending between 655 and 685 Roosevelt Street; and
          The east-west alley beginning between 514 and 520 North Illinois Street and
            ending between 490 East North Street and 423 East Griggsville Street.
1311 1-4-05 Vacating the alley beginning on the east right- of-way line of Dutton Street
            easterly to the west right-of-way line of Mississippi Street.
1339 9-5-06 Vacating the alley running north and south between Lot 2 and Lot 3 in Block 12
            of the city.
1405 8-18-  Vacating the east-west alley that extends from South Madison Street to the
     09     north-south alley extending between Clare Street and Crane Street.
     1-17-  Vacating the north end of the north/south alley in Block 24, between Lots 2 and
1447 12     3, in the Original Town (between the Nazarene Church and their property located
            at 211 West Washington Street).
1456 4-17-  Vacating a portion of an alley, being a ten-foot wide strip of land lying
     12     between two tracts, extending from Perry Street on the north.
1467 9-4-12 Vacating a portion of the alley 20 feet wide lying between Lots 6 and 7 in
            Block 2.
1506 11-19- Correcting legal description of alley vacated in Ordinance 1467.
     13
1509 1-21-  Further correction of legal description of alley vacated in Ordinance 1467.
     14
1528 10-21- Vacating the portion of the road 30 feet wide lying north of Lot 41 in Quinbys
     14     Third Addition to the city.
     7-21-  Vacating the portion of the east-west alley between West Fayette Street and
1549 15     West Grant Street, between Lots 1 and 2 and Lots 7 and 8 Block 2 of the Watson
            Addition off of Sycamore Street.
1563 5-3-16 Vacating that portion of Mason Street between Fayette Street and Perry Street.
            Vacating the portion of the east/west alley lying between Lots 15, 16, 17, 18,
     8-15-  and 19 in Brown’s Subdivision, of Lots 17, 18, and 22 of Peter’s Addition, and
1585 17     Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 in Brown’s Subdivision; of Lots 17, 18, and 22 of
            Peters Addition, from Franklin Street to the north/south alley lying between
            Lots 9 and 10 and Lots 19 and 20 from Washington Street to Adams Street.
1617 11-20- Vacating the north/south alley between Lots 2 and 3 of Block 2 of the Original
     18     Town.
            Vacating the portion of the east/west alley lying between Lots 47 and 48 in
1669 11-3-  Quinby’s 3rd Addition, all situated in the city of Pittsfield, Pike County,
     20     Illinois, from North Jackson Street to the north/south alley to the rear of
            said lots.
           
 
TABLE VI: ENCROACHMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amending Ord. 823 regulating encroachment on the right-of-
1120     4-6-93      way of Washington Street from a point 300 feet west of
                     Archer Street to a point 2160 feet east of Liberty Court
                     Prohibiting encroachment on the public right- of-way of
1162     8-1-95      Washington Street between Archer Street and the west
                     corporate limits of the city
 
TABLE VII: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
1359 8-7-07   Authorizing the establishment of a tax increment financing interested
              parties registry and adopting its registration rules.
1374 4-15-08  Establishing date for public hearing.
1379 7-1-08   Approving tax increment financing redevelopment plans and projects.
1380 7-1-08   Designating tax increment financing redevelopment project area.
1381 7-1-08   Adopting tax increment financing for Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District.
1396 1-5-10   Adopting tax increment financing for Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District.
1414 1-5-10   Approving the first amendment to the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District.
              Authorizing the issuance of up to $1,000,000 incremental taxes, sales
1416 4-20-10  taxes and revenue sharing receipts alternate revenue source bonds to
              finance street improvements.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
1417 4-20-10  District; authorizing payment of that surplus to the Pike County
              Treasurer.
1422 7-20-10  Approving and authorizing a pledge of funds from the City of Pittsfield's
              special Tax for repayment of a promissory note.
1429 4-5-11   Approving a TIF redevelopment agreement with Petty Properties III, LLC.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
1430 4-5-11   District; authorizing payment of that surplus to the Pike County
              Treasurer.
1432 5-17-11  Approving a TIF redevelopment agreement with Trophy Properties Real
              Estate, LLC.
1436 6-21-11  Approving a TIF redevelopment agreement with Ronald and Annette Baker.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District Special Tax
1452 3-6-12   Allocation Fund; authorizing payment of that surplus to the Pike County
              Treasurer.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of an amended and restated
1457 4-17-12  redevelopment agreement by and between the city and Panther Creek, Inc.
              (TIF).
1466 8-7-12   Approving a TIF redevelopment agreement with Scott Lummis.
1470 10-30-12 Authorizing the establishment of TIF “Interested Parties Registry” and
              adopting registration rules for such registries for TIF District II.
1471 10-30-12 Establishing date for public hearing for TIF District II.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a professional services
1474 11-20-12 agreement with Jacob & Klein, Ltd. and the Economic Development Group,
              Ltd. (TIF District II).
1478 12-4-12  Approving a TIF redevelopment agreement with Ionson, Inc. (d/b/a “Green
              Acres Motel”).
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District Special Tax
1484 1-15-13  Allocation Fund; authorizing payment of that surplus to the Pike County
              Treasurer.
1488 2-19-13  Approving the redevelopment plan and projects for TIF District II.
1489 2-19-13  Designating the redevelopment project area for TIF District II.
1490 2-19-13  Adopting tax increment allocation financing for TIF District II.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a first amendment to an
1493 4-2-13   intergovernmental agreement with Pikeland Community Unit School District
              No. 10 (TIF District I).
1494 4-2-13   Approving and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement
              with Pikeland Community Unit School District No. 10 (TIF District II).
              Declaring surplus revenue in TIF District I Special Tax Allocation Fund
1510 2-4-14   and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to Pike County Treasurer
              for distribution to affected taxing districts on pro rata basis for Tax
              Year 2012.
              Declaring surplus revenue in TIF District II Special Tax Allocation Fund
1511 2-4-14   and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to Pike County Treasurer
              for distribution to affected taxing districts on pro rata basis for Tax
              Year 2012.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a TIF district redevelopment
1513 6-3-14   agreement by and between the city and Jim Carnes, d/b/a Jim Carnes and
              Jeff Ator Truck Garage, and Jeff Ator.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1526 9-16-14  district redevelopment agreement between the city and Atlas Construction
              Supply Company.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District I Special Tax
1533 1-20-15  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District II Special Tax
1534 1-20-15  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer.
1552 10-6-15  Providing for and approving the second amendment to the Pittsfield TIF
              District I Redevelopment Project Area, Plan and Projects.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District I Special Tax
1559 2-2-16   Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District II Special Tax
1560 2-2-16   Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a first amendment to the TIF
1573 11-1-16  redevelopment agreement between the city and Atlas Construction Supply
              Co., Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District II.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District I Special Tax
1578 3-21-17  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2015 payable 2016.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District II Special Tax
1579 3-21-17  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2015 payable 2016.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1596 2-6-18   district redevelopment agreement between the city and Pikeland Holdings
              LLC, Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District II.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1597 2-6-18   district redevelopment agreement between the city and Bishop Hardware and
              Supply, Inc., Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1598 3-6-18   district redevelopment agreement between the city and Whitetail Properties
              Real Estate, LLC, Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District I Special Tax
1599 3-6-18   Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2016 payable 2017.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District II Special Tax
1600 3-21-17  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2016 payable 2017.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1601 4-3-18   district redevelopment agreement between the city and Bainter Enterprises,
              LLC (D.B.A. Mid USA Landscaping), Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing
1613 10-16-18 district redevelopment agreement between the city and Vitale Properties,
              LLC, Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
1621 1-15-19  Establishing a date for a public hearing for the third amendment to the
              Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District I Special Tax
1624 2-19-19  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2017 payable 2018.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield TIF District II Special Tax
1625 2-19-19  Allocation Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the
              Pike County Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts for
              tax year 2017 payable 2018.
1628 3-19-19  Approving the third amendment to the redevelopment plan and projects for
              Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
1629 3-19-19  Designating the amended redevelopment project area for the third amendment
              to Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
1630 3-19-19  Adopting tax increment allocation financing for the third amendment to
              Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Providing for and approving the first amendment to the Pittsfield Tax
1632 5-21-19  Increment Financing District II redevelopment project area, plan and
              projects.
     9-3-     Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1640 19    between the city and Cosmic Entertainment Complex, LLC, for the Pittsfield
              Tax Increment Financing District II.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1649 11-19-19 between the city and Square 1838, LLC, for the Pittsfield Tax Increment
              Financing District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement
1650 12-3-19  between the city and Pikeland C.U.S.D. #10 for the Pittsfield Tax
              Increment Financing District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement
1651 12-3-19  between the city and Pikeland C.U.S.D. #10 for the Pittsfield Tax
              Increment Financing District II.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1652 1-7-20   between the city and Ashron, Inc., for the Pittsfield Tax Increment
              Financing District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a first amendment to the
1654 2-18-20  redevelopment agreement between the city and Square 1838, LLC, for the
              Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District I Special Tax Allocation Fund, and authorizing payment of that
1655 3-3-20   surplus revenue to the County Treasurer for distribution to affected
              taxing districts on a pro rata basis for the tax year 2018 payable in
              2019.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
     3-3-     District II Special Tax Allocation Fund, and authorizing payment of that
1656 20    surplus revenue to the County Treasurer for distribution to affected
              taxing districts on a pro rata basis for the tax year 2018 payable in
              2019.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a second amendment to the
1657 3-17-20  redevelopment agreement between the city and Square 1838, LLC, for the
              Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District I Special Tax Allocation
1674 4-6-21   Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2019 payable in 2020.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District II Special Tax Allocation
1675 4-6-21   Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2019 payable in 2020.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District I Special Tax Allocation
1691 2-1-22   Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2020 payable in 2021.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District II Special Tax Allocation
1692 2-1-22   Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2020 payable in 2021.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District I Special Tax Allocation
1709 2-21-23  Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2021 payable in 2022.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District II Special Tax Allocation
1710 2-21-23  Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2021 payable in 2022.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1715 7-18-23  between the city and Trux, LLC, for the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing
              District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1716 8-1-23   between the city and Square 1838, LLC, for the Pittsfield Tax Increment
              Financing District I.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District I Special Tax Allocation
1727 2-6-24   Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
              Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2022 payable in 2023.
              Declaring surplus revenue in the TIF District II Special Tax Allocation
1728 2-6-     Fund and authorizing payment of that surplus revenue to the Pike County
     24    Treasurer for distribution to affected taxing districts on a pro rata
              basis for tax year 2022 payable in 2023.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of the first amendment to
1731 4-16-24  terminate a redevelopment agreement between the city and Trux, LLC, for
              the Pittsfield Tax Increment Financing District I.
              Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement
1732 5-7-24   between the city and Christopher A. Nichols, for the Pittsfield Tax
              Increment Financing District I.
             
             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1974 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                          Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                   10.04
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1                  35.02
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1 et seq.          35.02
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2                  35.01
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 7                  35.05
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 1 et seq.          34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15               34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65               34.44
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40    34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10              35.43
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5               34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5               34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)            34.40
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)            34.40
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.      135.02
Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.   137.02
Ch. 30, Act 725, § 1.2               32.78
Ch. 35, Act 105, § 3-5               33.32
Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.       33.46
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 2                 33.49
Ch. 35, Act 615, §§ 1 et seq.       50.30
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.       32.06
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005              137.02
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127              70.01
                                      10.02,
Ch. 65, Act 5                         32.78,
                                      51.36
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2               10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1               10.99,
                                      153.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1             153.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-2               30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3               30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4               30.07 ,
                                      33.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-5               30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-15           31.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-40           30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-45           30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-50           30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-55           30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 4-1-1 et seq.     30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-1-1 et seq.     30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 7-1-9               T.S.O. I
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-1-1 et seq.     30.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22             33.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-5             32.78
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7             97.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1             71.001,
                                      75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3             77.02
                                      77.01,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1           77.02,
                                      77.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-119.2-1 et seq.51.80
Ch. 105, Act 5, 26-1 et seq.          132.15
Ch. 205, Act 5, § 5g                 135.01,
                                      135.02
Ch. 205, Act 205, § 7008             135.01,
                                      135.02
Ch. 205, Act 305, § 42.7             135.01,
                                      135.02
Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.      154.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105              158.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102             158.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)        158.03
Ch. 225, Act 446, §§ 1 et seq.      137.02
Ch. 225, Act 446, § 185              137.02
Ch. 225, Act 447                      137.02
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 15                       115.03,
                                      115.04
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.      78.01
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-21               110.09
Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.      33.90
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215              71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.220              71.103
                                      71.103,
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360              136.01,
                                      136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                71.103,
                                      136.01
Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4 and 8        136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 5 and 8        136.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 6 and 8        136.04
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8                Ch. 137
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                136.05
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10               136.06
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 - 16.3     Ch. 137
Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.      70.35
                                      76.01,
Ch. 625                               78.04,
                                      78.31
Ch. 625, Act 5                        76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.    136.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.    75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.9            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126.1            75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-133.1            71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1            70.01,
                                      72.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188              10.02,
                                      70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 2-101            76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 2-101 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-401.5            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609              72.12,
                                      72.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616              72.12,
                                      72.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-821.1            77.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-101 et seq.      76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-107(c)           77.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201              77.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-202              77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203              77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(e)           77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(g)           77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-204              77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-205              77.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-206              77.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208              77.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209              77.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209.2            77.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-210              77.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-211              77.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-212              77.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213              77.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213(b)           77.05,
                                      77.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-214              77.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 5-100 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 6-100 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500              71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 7-100 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 7-601 et seq.    81.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 8-101 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 9-101 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 10-101 et seq    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-100 et seq.   76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203             70.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206             70.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301             70.01,
                                      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302             70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305             70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306             70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307             70.31,
                                      70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308             70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309             70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310             70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311             70.36
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312             70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313             70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 - 11-502  81.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501             71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605             71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)          71.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611             71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701             71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702             71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703             70.99,
                                      71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704             71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707             71.047 
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708             71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709             71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710             71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711             71.106
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801             71.020
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802             71.021
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803             71.022
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804             71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805             71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806             71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901             71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-901 et seq.   73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902             71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903             71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904             71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905             71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906             71.065
                                      71.040,  
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907             71.048,  
                                      71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907.5           71.040,  
                                      71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, 11-908                71.040,  
                                      71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001            74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001 et seq.    74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002            74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003            74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1          74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004            74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1          74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005            74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005.1          74.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006            74.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007            74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008            74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009            74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010            74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011            74.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201            71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202            71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204            70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205            71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301            72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2          72.12,
                                      72.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c),(d) 72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302            72.40
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303            72.10,
                                      72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304            72.01,
                                      72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305            72.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401            72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402            71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403            73.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1          73.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2          73.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404            73.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405            73.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406            71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407            71.098
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410            71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1          71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.2          74.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413            71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414            71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416            71.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418            71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420            71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425            71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502            73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503            73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504            73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505            73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1          73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506            73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507            73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1          73.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.   75.01,
                                      76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101             75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-201             81.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208             71.023,
                                      71.024
                                      70.11,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215             71.066,
                                      72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601             74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.1           71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610.2           71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709             81.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803             71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805             71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 13-100 et seq.   76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 13C-1 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-100 et seq.   75.10,
                                      76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101             75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105             75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106             75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109             75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114             75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq.   70.99,
                                      76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 17-101 et seq.   76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 18a-100 et seq.  76.01,
                                      77.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18a-200            76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-100 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-1101 et seq.   76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201           158.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18d-101 et seq.    76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-101 et seq.     76.01
                                      78.02,
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.     78.04,
                                      78.37
Ch. 720                               138.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 1-1              138.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.      138.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12               130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4                130.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5                130.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6                130.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7                130.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4                130.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20              134.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21              134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30              134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12a-1 et seq.      134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12b-1 et seq.      134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 17-52.5            135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 17-55              135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1               131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3               131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1               137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(6),(7),(9) 137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7)         137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(c)(2)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(e)            137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, 24-1(g)(5)            137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2               137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1             137.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6               137.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1               132.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1               135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1 (a)(4)        135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2               135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(a)(1) - (a)(4)135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)            115.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3               135.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a),(b)        135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1               133.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8               133.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9               133.03
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 1 et seq.        78.01
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.    78.01
Ch. 720, Act 646, §§ 1 et seq.      76.11
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 107-1              32.05
Ch. 725, Act 5, §§ 108-1 et seq.    32.05
Ch. 725, Act 210, §§ 1 et seq.      137.02
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)            35.43
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)            35.43
Ch. 765, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.      32.92
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101              35.43
 
REFERENCES TO 1974 CODE
1974 Code Section 1996 Code Section
1974 Code Section 1996 Code Section
1-8               10.99
2-1               11.01
2-4               33.01
2-15              30.01
2-16              30.02
2-17              30.03
2-18              30.04
2-19              30.05
2-20              30.06
2-21              30.07
2-22              30.08
2-23              30.09
2-24              30.07
2-25              30.10
2-26              30.11
2-33              30.20
2-34              30.21
2-35              30.22
2-36              30.23
2-37              30.24
2-44              34.01
2-45              34.02
2-46              34.02
2-47              34.03
2-54              31.01
2-55              31.01
2-62              31.30
2-63              31.30
2-64              31.31
2-65              31.30
2-66              31.33
2-67              31.30
2-68              31.30
2-70              31.32
2-76              31.51
2-77              31.50
2-78              31.52
2-79              31.53
2-80              31.54
2-81              31.55
2-82              31.56
2-83              31.57
2-84              31.58
2-85              31.59
2-86              31.60
2-92              31.75
2-93              31.77
2-94              31.78
2-95              31.79
2-96              31.80
2-97              31.76
2-110             34.04
2-111             34.05
2-112             34.06
2-113             34.07
2-114             34.08
2-115             34.09
2-116             34.09
2-119             34.10
2-120             34.12
2-121             34.14
2-122             34.16
2.5-1             90.001
2.5-2             90.002
2.5-3             90.003
2.5-4             90.004
2.5-5             90.005
2.5-6             90.006
2.5-7             90.007
2.5-8             90.020
2.5-9             90.021
2.5-10            90.022
2.5-11            90.023
2.5-12            90.024
2.5-13            90.035 -
                  90.049
2.5-14            90.008
2.5-15            90.060 -
                  90.081
                  90.009,
2.5-16            90.010,
                  90.090 -
                  90.092
2.5-17            90.011
2.5-18            90.999
2.5-19            90.012
2.5-31            90.103
2.5-32            90.104
2.5-33            90.105
2.5-34            90.106
2.5-35            90.105
2.5-36            90.100
2.5-37            90.105
2.5-38            90.102
2.5-39            90.101
2.5-40            90.107
2.5-41            90.999
4-17              111.10
4-18              111.11
4-19              111.01
4-20              111.02
4-21              111.99
5-1               91.01
5-2               91.02
5-3               91.03
5-5               91.04
5-6               91.05
5-7               91.26
5-19              91.41
5-20              91.43
5-21              91.45
5-22              91.44
5-23              91.46
5-24              91.99
5-30              91.42
5-31              91.15
5-32              91.47
5-33              91.47
5-34              91.47
6-1               150.01
6-2               150.02
6-3               150.03
6-4               150.04
6-16              150.10
6-17              150.11
6-18              150.12
6-19              150.13
6-31              150.20
6-32              150.21
6-33              150.22
6-34              150.23
6-35              150.24
6-36              150.25
6-37              150.26
8-1               151.01
8-33              112.01
8-34              112.10
8-35              112.11
8-36              112.13
8-37              112.12
8-38              112.02
8-40              112.03
9-1               92.01
9-2               92.10
9-3               92.02
9-4               92.11
12-1              152.01
13-1              153.01,
                  153.03
13-2              153.02
13-15             153.04
13-16             153.05
13-17             153.06
13-18             153.07
13-19             153.08
13-20             153.99
13-27             153.20
13-28             153.21
13-29             153.22
13-30             153.23
13-31             153.24
13-32             153.25
13-43             153.35
13-44             153.36
13-45             153.37
13-46             153.38
13-47             153.39
13-48             153.40
13-49             153.41
13-50             153.42
13-57             153.43
13-58             153.44
13-59             153.45
13-60             153.46
13-61             153.47
13-62             153.48
13-63             153.42
13-70             153.60
13-71             153.61
13-72             153.62
13-73             153.63
13-74             153.64
13-75             153.65
14-1              94.01
14-2              94.10
14-3              94.02
14-4              94.03
15-11             113.02
15-12             113.01
15-13             113.03
15-14             113.03
15-15             113.03
15-16             113.04
15-17             113.05
15-18             113.06
15-25             113.15
15-26             113.16
15-27             113.17
15-28             113.18
15-29             113.19
15-30             113.20
15-31             113.21
15-32             113.22
17-1              70.01
17-2              70.12
17-3              70.11
17-4              70.14
17-5              70.01
17-6              70.10
17-7              70.10,
                  71.108
17-8              70.15
17-10             73.02
17-11             73.20
17-12             73.21
17-13             73.03
17-14             71.102
17-15             71.107
17-18             76.03
17-19             71.109
17-20             70.15
17-32             70.01
17-33             70.31
17-34             70.33
17-35             70.34
17-36             70.30
17-37             70.42
17-38             70.35
17-39             70.36
17-54             71.022
17-55             71.048
17-56             71.046
17-57             Ch. 79, Sch. I
17-59             71.002
17-60             71.101
17-61             71.106
17-62             71.110
17-63             71.110
17-64             75.02
17-65             71.100
17-66             71.100
17-67             71.104
17-69             71.081
17-70             71.067
17-71             71.095
17-81             71.040
17-82             71.041
17-83             71.042
17-84             71.043
17-85             71.044
17-86             71.045
17-96             71.061
17-97             71.066
17-98             71.065
17-99             71.065
17-100            71.062
17-101            71.064
17-102            71.060
17-103            Ch. 79, Sch. II
17-104            71.063
17-105            Ch. 79, Sch. IV
17-106            Ch. 79, Sch. III
17-114            71.020
17-115            71.021
17-116            71.023
17-117            71.024
17-118            71.025
17-120            71.021
17-132            74.02
17-133            74.02
17-134            74.06
17-135            74.03
17-136            74.07
17-137            74.08
17-138            74.08
17-139            74.01
17-140            74.09
17-141            74.06
17-142            74.05
17-154            72.10
17-155            Ch. 80, Sch. I
17-156            72.02
17-157            72.01
17-158            71.022,
                  Ch. 80, Sch. III
17-160            72.14
17-161            72.10
17-162            72.10
17-163            72.15
17-164            72.16
17-166            72.40
17-167            72.42
17-178            71.097
17-179            73.22
17-180            73.06
17-182 - 17-189   75.01
17-191            75.13
17-192 - 17-194   75.10
17-226            78.01,
                  78.02
17-227            78.03
17-228            78.04
17-235            78.20
17-236            78.21
17-237            78.22
17-238            78.23
17-239            78.24
17-240            78.25
17-241            78.26
17-242            78.27
17-243            78.28
17-244            78.29
17-245            78.30
17-246            78.31
17-247            78.31
17-248            78.32
17-249            78.33
17-250            78.34
17-251            78.35
17-252            78.36
17-253            78.37
17-254            78.38
17-255            78.39
17-256            78.40
17-257            78.41
17-258            78.42
17-259            78.43
17-260            78.44
17-261            78.45
17-262            78.46
                  95.01,
18-1              132.04,
                  132.05
18-2              95.02
18-3              95.03
18-4              95.03
19-1              95.04
19-2              133.04
19-4              95.05
19-16             132.01
19-17             133.01
19-18             132.03
19-19             132.03
19-20             132.05
19-21             132.01
19-22             132.06
19-34             131.04
19-35             131.05
19-36             131.04
19-37             131.04
19-39             131.04
19-50             137.01
19-51             137.03
19-52             137.04
19-53             137.05
19-54             137.06
19-80             134.01
19-87             134.02
19-88             134.02
20-1              32.31
21-16             32.70
21-17             32.71
21-18             32.72
21-19             32.73
21-20             32.74
21-21             32.75
21-22             32.76
21-23             32.77
21-24             32.78
21-25             155.10
21-26             32.79
22-16             32.01
22-17             32.02
22-18             32.03
22-19             32.04
22-20             32.05
23-1              93.002
23-2              93.001
23-3              93.003
23-4              93.004
23-5              93.005
23-6              93.006
23-7              93.006
23-8              93.008
23-9              93.007
23-10             93.009
23-11             93.010
23-12             93.011
23-13             93.012
23-14             93.013
23-15             93.014
23-16             93.015
23-17             93.016
23-18             93.017
23-19             93.018
23-20             93.019
23-21             93.020
23-22             93.021
23-23             93.022
23-24             93.023
23-28             93.026
23-29             93.027
23-30             93.028
23-31             93.029
23-32             93.030
23-33             93.999
23-44             93.031
23-45             93.032
23-46             93.033
23-47             93.034
23-48             93.024
23-55             93.045
23-56             93.046
23-57             93.047
23-58             93.048
23-59             93.049
23-60             93.050
23-61             93.051
23-62             93.052
23-63             93.053
23-64             93.054
23-65             93.055
23-66             93.056
23-68             93.057,
                  93.058
23-69             93.059
23-70             93.060
23-71             93.061
23-72             93.062
23-79             93.070
23-80             93.071
23-81             93.072
23-82             93.073
23-83             93.074
23-84             93.075
23-85             93.076
23-86             93.077
23-98             93.090
23-99             93.091
23-100            93.092
23-101            93.093
23-102            93.094
23-103            93.095
23-104            93.096
23-105            93.097
23-106            93.098
23-107            93.099,
                  93.100
24-1              96.01
24-2              96.02
24-3              96.03
24-4              96.40
24-5              96.41
24-6              96.04
24-7              96.05
24-8              96.06
24-20             96.30
24-21             96.31
24-22             96.01
24-23             96.07
24-24             96.20
24-36             96.08
24-37             96.09
24-38             96.10
24-39             96.42
25-1              155.01
25-2              155.14
25-3              155.15
25-4              155.16
25-5              155.17
25-6              155.18
25-7              155.11
25-8              155.12
25-9              155.02
25-10             155.13
25-22             155.30
25-23             155.31
25-24             155.32
25-25             155.33
25-26             155.34
25-38             155.35
25-39             155.36
25-40             155.37
25-41             155.38
25-42             155.39
25-43             155.40
26-1              33.02
26-28             33.45
26-29             33.46
26-30             33.47
26-32             33.49
26-43             33.15
26-44             33.16
26-45             33.17
26-56             33.30
26-57             33.31
26-58             33.32
27-1              52.01
27-2              52.33
27-3              53.01
27-4              52.36
27-5              52.34
27-17             52.02
27-18             52.04
27-19             52.06
27-20             52.05
27-21             52.07
27-22             52.30
27-23             52.08,
                  52.14
27-24             52.31
27-26             52.09
27-27             52.10
27-28             52.11,
                  52.99
27-29             52.12
27-30             52.13
27-39             52.50
27-40             52.51
27-41             52.52
27-48             52.60
27-49             52.61
27-50             52.62
27-51             52.63
27-59             52.64
27-60             52.25
27-61             52.26
27-61.1           52.27
27-62             52.28
27-63             52.29
27-64             52.14
27-65             52.35
27-66             52.36
27-68             71.080
27-76             51.01
27-77             51.02 -
                  51.05
27-78             51.16
27-79             51.17
27-80             51.06 -
                  51.15
27-81             51.18
27-82             51.19
27-83             51.99
27-96             51.39
27-97             51.11
27-98             51.30
27-99             51.31
27-100            51.32
27-101            51.32
27-102            51.33
27-103            51.34
27-104            51.35
27-105            51.36
27-106            51.37
27-108            51.99
27-109            51.20
27-126            51.38
27-144            50.20
27-145            50.99
27-146            50.01
27-147            50.21
27-148            50.22
27-149            50.02
27-156            50.23
27-157            50.34
27-158            50.03
27-159            50.30
27-160            50.31
27-161            50.32
27-162            50.33
27-166            50.46
27-167            50.45
27-168            50.47
27-169            50.48
27-170            50.49
27-171            50.50
27-172            50.51
27-176            50.60
27-177            50.35
27-178            50.61
27-179            50.62
27-180            50.63
27-181            50.64
27-182            50.65
27-183            50.04
27-191            50.05
27-192            50.06
27-193            50.07
27-194            50.08
27-195            50.09
27-196            50.10
29-16             114.10
29-17             114.11
29-18             114.12
29-19             114.01
29-20             114.14
29-21             114.13
29-22             114.15
Appendix A, § 1  156.001,
                  156.002
Appendix A, § 3  156.004
Appendix A, § 4  156.007
Appendix A, § 5  156.011
Appendix A, § 6  156.120 -
                  156.123
Appendix A, § 7  156.130 -
                  156.133
Appendix A, § 8  156.075 -
                  156.078
Appendix A, § 9  156.090 -
                  156.094
Appendix A, § 10 156.105 -
                  156.107
Appendix A, § 11 156.140
Appendix A, § 12 156.150,
                  156.151
                  156.035,
Appendix A, § 13 156.045 -
                  156.052
Appendix A, § 14 156.010
Appendix A, § 15 156.060 -
                  156.064
Appendix A, § 16 156.008
Appendix A, § 17 156.006
Appendix A, § 18 156.020 -
                  156.023
Appendix A, § 20 156.009
Appendix A, § 21 156.003
Appendix A, § 22 156.005
Appendix A, § 23 156.999
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
        - -         Ch. 79, Sch. II
        - -         Ch. 79, Sch. III
        - -         Ch. 79, Sch. IV
        - -         Ch. 80, Sch. I
        - -         Ch. 80, Sch. II
462      - -         11.02
529      - -         32.30
1049     - -         10.99
1175     - -         T.S.O. II
107      9-17-15     96.05
116      8-7-17      96.04
198      6-1-26      96.41
200      7-6-26      96.01
239      1-3-30      96.42
263      7-5-35      32.03
311      12-30-37    33.15 -
                     33.17
                     114.01,
384      9-4-45      114.10,
                     114.12 -
                     114.15
443      12-11-51    33.02
463      12-9-52     31.30,
                     31.33
477      6-10-53     34.02
484      8-11-53     30.07
490      11-10-53    30.01
526      5-24-55     30.20 -
                     30.23
528      5-24-55     30.01
535      7-5-55      52.34
                     96.01,
                     96.03,
                     96.07,
536      8-16-55     96.09,
                     96.20,
                     96.30,
                     96.31
                     32.70 -
543      9-6-55      32.79,
                     155.10
545      9-27-55     96.10
                     31.75,
557      2-21-56     31.77 -
                     31.79
565      6-19-56     96.02
569      7-17-56     96.30
                     112.01 -
572      8-21-56     112.03,
                     112.10 -
                     112.13
575      9-4-56      52.36
578      9-11-56     30.07
589      4-2-57      52.04
638      7-21-59     32.71
                     70.14,
                     70.42,
                     71.065,
                     71.107,
                     71.109,
                     71.110,
                     72.10,
                     72.14,
                     72.15,
664      1-17-61     72.42,
                     74.01,
                     74.06,
                     74.08,
                     74.09,
                     75.02,
                     75.10,
                     Ch. 79, Schs. I -
                     IV,
                     Ch. 80, Schs. I,
                     II
681      8-15-61     150.10 -
                     150.12
682      8-15-61     150.20 -
                     150.26
683      9-5-61      Ch. 79, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 80, Sch. I
686      10-3-61     93.001
688      10-7-61     52.51
                     52.02,
                     52.05 -
                     52.14,
                     52.28 -
688      11-7-61     52.30,
                     52.35,
                     52.50,
                     52.52,
                     52.60 -
                     52.64
701      7-17-62     31.80
721      9-3-63      50.63
723      9-3-63      50.04
721      9-6-63      50.64,
                     50.65
716      1-21-64     151.01
726      1-21-64     Ch. 79, Sch. II
                     Ch. 79, Sch. II,
735      9-15-64     Ch. 79, Sch. IV,
                     Ch. 80, Sch. II
                     93.002 -
                     93.031,
                     93.033,
                     93.034,
                     93.045 -
741      12-1-64     93.062,
                     93.070 -
                     93.077,
                     93.090 -
                     93.100,
                     93.999
                     91.01 -
                     91.05,
                     91.15,
745      3-16-65     91.26,
                     91.41,
                     91.43 -
                     91.47
750      7-6-65      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
                     153.01 -
                     153.08,
                     153.20 -
780      8-1-67      153.25,
                     153.35 -
                     153.48,
                     153.60 -
                     153.65
783      1-16-68     114.11
792      3-5-68      Ch. 80, Sch. I
793      3-5-68      150.01,
                     150.02
797      6-4-68      31.80
799      6-4-68      92.01
800      9-3-68      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
804      11-5-68     153.36
817      9-2-69      33.45 -
                     33.47
824      2-17-70     Ch. 80, Sch. I
825      4-7-70      52.01
829      7-21-70     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
                     155.01,
                     155.02,
                     155.11 -
838      1-19-71     155.15,
                     155.17,
                     155.18,
                     155.30 -
                     155.40
839      2-16-71     52.35
843      6-1-71      31.80
844      6-1-71      Ch. 79, Sch. III
849      6-22-71     93.032
852      9-21-71     71.109
838      11-19-71    155.16
861      7-25-72     52.01
865      9-26-72     53.01
867      12-19-72    52.33
                     155.01,
                     155.02,
871      2-20-73     155.11 -
                     155.18,
                     155.30 -
                     155.40
873      4-24-73     91.42 
874      6-19-73     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
877      7-3-73      Ch. 80, Sch. I
878      8-7-73      155.39
883      10-2-73     92.02
                     52.11,
894      6-4-74      52.31,
                     52.99
                     93.007,
                     93.021,
895      6-4-74      93.045,
                     93.072,
                     93.073
896      6-4-74      93.032
897      6-18-74     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
900      8-20-74     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
904      10-15-74    33.30,
                     33.31
922      7-6-76      156.020 -
                     156.023
923      7-6-76      93.032
                     90.001 -
                     90.012,
                     90.020 -
                     90.024,
                     90.035 -
938      2-1-77      90.049,
                     90.060 -
                     90.081,
                     90.090 -
                     90.092,
                     90.999
                     90.100 -
940      4-5-77      90.103,
                     90.105 -
                     90.107
950      12-20-77    Ch. 80, Sch. II
                     156.011,
                     156.090 -
956      10-3-78     156.094,
                     156.105 -
                     156.107
                     91.15,
                     91.42,
969      9-18-79     91.43,
                     91.45 -
                     91.47,
                     91.99
                     52.28,
970      11-20-79    52.30,
                     52.31,
                     52.36
                     78.01 -
972      1-15-80     78.04,
                     78.20 -
                     78.46
977      9-16-80     33.32,
                     33.49
                     30.10,
                     30.11,
981      11-18-80    31.32,
                     31.50,
                     31.51
987      1-20-81     Ch. 80, Sch. I
990      6-2-81      91.42,
                     91.43 
                     52.25,
994      10-6-81     52.26,
                     52.28,
                     52.31
995      10-6-81     51.38
1029     10-16-81    52.25
996      11-17-81    34.04 -
                     34.09
1003     6-15-82     34.40
1004     7-6-82      52.25 -
                     52.27
1005     7-6-82      90.999
1018     9-20-83     156.009
1023     1-17-84     93.013
                     30.10,
                     30.11,
1028     10-2-84     31.32,
                     31.50,
                     31.51
1029     10-16-84    52.25,
                     52.26
                     51.01 -
1030     10-16-84    51.19,
                     51.99
                     51.11,
                     51.20,
1031     10-16-84    51.31,
                     51.32 -
                     51.37,
                     51.99
1035     3-19-85     93.999
1044     12-3-85     51.30
1048     2-18-86     93.013
1051     4-1-86      Ch. 80, Sch. I
1055     5-20-86     Ch. 80, Sch. I
1058     10-21-86    51.30
1059     5-5-87      156.009
                     50.01 -
                     50.03,
                     50.20 -
                     50.23,
                     50.30 -
1060     7-21-87     50.35,
                     50.45 -
                     50.51,
                     50.60 -
                     50.62,
                     50.99
1061     7-21-87     52.36
1066     4-19-88     92.11
1069     7-19-88     50.05 -
                     50.10
                     111.01,
                     111.02,
1072     10-4-88     111.10,
                     111.11,
                     111.99
1075     11-14-88    31.32
1074     11-15-88    111.02
                     30.10,
1075     11-15-88    30.11,
                     31.50,
                     31.51
1079     9-5-89      T.S.O. V
1081     11-7-89     T.S.O. I
1084     2-20-90     34.04 -
                     34.17
                     52.75 -
1083     3-7-90      52.84,
                     52.99
1085     3-7-90      91.60,
                     91.61
1086     5-15-90     T.S.O. V
1087     5-15-90     T.S.O. I
1091     9-18-90     T.S.O. I
1093     10-16-90    T.S.O. V
1094     3-19-91     T.S.O. I
1095     4-16-91     32.50 -
                     32.59
1096     5-21-91     T.S.O. I
                     154.01 -
                     154.05,
1097     6-18-91     154.15,
                     154.16,
                     154.99
                     154.02,
                     154.03,
1098     6-18-91     154.05 -
                     154.07,
                     154.17
1099     6-18-91     T.S.O. I
1098     6-28-91     154.01
1103     11-19-91    T.S.O. I
1104     4-21-92     111.10
                     110.01 -
1105     6-2-92      110.11,
                     110.13
1107     6-2-92      51.80
1109     6-16-92     T.S.O. V
1110     6-16-92     T.S.O. IV
1111     8-18-92     32.30
113      11-17-92    31.90
1114     12-1-92     T.S.O. I
116      12-15-92    Ch. 80, Sch. I
1115     12-15-92    T.S.O. I
1117     1-5-93      T.S.O. I
1118     2-2-93      T.S.O. I
1119     2-2-93      T.S.O. IV
1120     4-6-93      T.S.O. VI
1121     5-18-93     T.S.O. I
1123     8-17-93     91.26
1124     8-17-93     T.S.O. I
1125     10-5-93     T.S.O. I
1126     11-2-93     T.S.O. I
1127     11-16-93    T.S.O. I
1128     11-16-93    T.S.O. V
1130     4-5-94      132.03
1131     4-5-94      T.S.O. I
1135     7-19-94     Ch. 80, Sch. I
1136     7-19-94     72.12,
                     72.13
1138     9-6-94      T.S.O. I
1137     9-20-94     T.S.O. III
1139     9-20-94     34.41,
                     34.42
1140     10-4-94     T.S.O. I
1141     10-18-94    T.S.O. I
1142     11-1-94     T.S.O. I
1143     11-1-94     137.05
1145     12-6-94     T.S.O. V
1149     12-6-94     11.02
1148     12-20-94    10.99
1150     2-21-95     51.30
1151     3-21-95     51.37
1152     4-4-95      T.S.O. I
1156     5-16-95     T.S.O. IV
1157     5-16-95     137.05
1158     6-20-95     T.S.O. I
1161     7-18-95     T.S.O. I
1153     8-1-95      51.21
1162     8-1-95      T.S.O. VI
915      8-19-95     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1164     9-5-95      T.S.O. I
1166     9-19-95     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1167     9-19-95     T.S.O. I
1168     10-17-95    T.S.O. I
1169     12-5-95     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1172     1-2-96      Ch. 79, Schs. III,
                     IV
1170     1-16-96     T.S.O. IV
1174     5-7-96      T.S.O. I
1176     - -96       Ch. 79, Schs. II,
                     IV
1183     4-1-97      T.S.O. V
1186     6-3-97      T.S.O. I
1187     - -97       T.S.O. V
1188     6-3-97      T.S.O. IV
1190     7-15-97     T.S.O. I
1192     9-2-97      T.S.O. I
1193     9-2-97      T.S.O. I
1196     2-17-98     T.S.O. I
1197     3-17-98     T.S.O. IV
1198     4-7-98      T.S.O. I
1199     4-21-98     T.S.O. I
1200     4-21-98     52.37 -
                     52.41
1203     7-7-98      152.01
1205     7-21-98     T.S.O. I
1207     8-4-98      T.S.O. I
1210     11-17-98    77.02,
                     77.05
1211     11-17-98    32.71
1214     1-5-99      T.S.O. I
1215     3-16-99     34.18
1216     5-4-99      34.40,
                     34.42
1217     - -99       90.100,
                     90.108
1222     8-17-99     T.S.O. II
1223     9-7-99      32.90 -
                     32.93
1227     10-5-99     T.S.O. II
1229     10-19-99    T.S.O. II
1230     10-19-99    T.S.O. II
1231     10-19-99    T.S.O. II
1235     4-4-00      92.10
1237     7-18-00     50.30
1238     8-15-00     T.S.O. I
1242     1-16-01     T.S.O. I
1243     1-16-01     33.60 -
                     33.76 
1245     3-20-01     T.S.O. I
1246     4-17-01     32.30
1247     4-17-01     34.06 -
                     34.08
1248     5-15-01     T.S.O. I
1251     6-5-01      50.31 -
                     50.33
1252     6-5-01      52.36
1253     6-5-01      156.012
1248A    9-4-01      T.S.O. I
1255     9-18-01     T.S.O. I
1256     10-16-01    T.S.O. V
1259     1-15-02     156.105
1260     3-5-02      32.100 -
                     32.109
                     156.045,
1262     6-4-02      156.053 -
                     156.055,
                     156.170
                     91.40 -
1263     6-4-02      91.48,
                     91.99
1264     5-28-02     T.S.O. III
1265     6-4-02      93.032
1266     6-4-02      93.045
1268     6-18-02     93.045,
                     93.999
1269     9-3-02      11.02
1270     8-20-02     T.S.O. V
1271     9-17-02     33.85 -
                     33.89
1272     9-17-02     52.25
1273     9-17-02     51.30
1274     9-17-02     93.080,
                     93.999
1277     10-1-02     T.S.O. I
1279     4-1-03      53.01,
                     53.02
1280     4-1-03      34.16
1282     7-15-03     T.S.O. I
1283     8-5-03      50.31,
                     50.32
1284     8-5-03      52.36
1285     8-19-03     Adopting Ordinance
                     156.005,
1288     9-16-03     156.052,
                     156.160 -
                     156.166
                     132.15,
1291     2-3-04      132.16,
                     132.18,
                     132.99
1292     2-17-04     156.020
1293     3-2-04      T.S.O. I
1295     5-4-04      34.40
1297     6-1-04      T.S.O. V
1298     7-6-04      132.02,
                     132.99
1301     10-5-04     95.06
1304     9-21-04     31.90
1306     11-2-04     Adopting Ordinance
1307     12-21-04    T.S.O. I
1308     12-21-04    35.01 -
                     35.06
                     154.02,
                     154.05,
1309     2-1-05      156.180 -
                     156.182,
                     156.999
1311     1-4-05      T.S.O. V
1313     2-15-05     156.165
1316     4-5-05      156.190 -
                     156.197
1318     4-19-05     156.196
                     50.33,
1324     8-16-05     50.45,
                     52.31
1325     8-16-05     32.120
1328     11-15-05    T.S.O. I
1331     1-3-06      T.S.O. III
1332     2-21-06     T.S.O. I
1333     3-7-06      T.S.O. I
1339     9-5-06      T.S.O. V
1345     11-21-06    32.120
                     97.01 -
1346     11-21-06    97.09,
                     97.99
1347     11-7-06     155.41 -
                     155.43
1349     12-5-06     30.01
1351     4-3-07      T.S.O. I
1352     4-3-07      30.01
                     110.02,
1353     4-3-07      110.03,
                     110.05,
                     110.10
1354     4-17-07     T.S.O. III
1355     5-1-07      113.05,
                     113.16
1356     5-15-07     156.122,
                     156.132
1358     8-7-07      T.S.O. I
1359     8-7-07      T.S.O. VII
1360     8-21-07     151.01
                     95.15 -
1362     9-18-07     95.18,
                     95.99
1364     11-6-07     T.S.O. I
1368     11-20-07    53.01,
                     53.02
1370     12-18-07    Ch. 79, Sch. IV
                     110.03,
1371     1-15-08     110.05,
                     110.10
1372     3-18-08     Ch. 80, Sch. I
1373     4-15-08     T.S.O. I
1374     4-25-08     T.S.O. VII
1375     5-20-08     T.S.O. I
1376     5-6-08      Adopting Ordinance
1377     5-20-08     95.15
1379     7-1-08      T.S.O. VII
1380     7-1-08      T.S.O. VII
1381     7-1-08      T.S.O. VII
1383     8-5-08      52.36
1384     9-2-08      T.S.O. I
1390     11-5-08     T.S.O. I
1391     10-7-08     31.90
                     98.01 -
1392     10-21-08    98.03,
                     98.99
1395     2-3-09      81.01
1396     1-5-10      T.S.O. VII
1398     3-3-09      81.01
1399     4-21-09     50.33
                     36.01 -
1400     4-21-09     36.06,
                     36.20,
                     36.21
1401     4-21-09     52.36
1405     8-18-09     T.S.O. V
1407     9-15-09     110.14
1410     12-15-09    52.25
1411     12-1-09     113.02
                     70.55 -
1413     1-5-10      70.61,
                     70.99
1414     1-5-10      T.S.O. VII
1415     4-20-10     52.25
1416     4-20-10     T.S.O. VII
1417     4-20-10     T.S.O. VII
1418     7-20-10     91.25
1420     7-20-10     34.19
1421     8-3-10      T.S.O. I
1422     7-20-10     T.S.O. VII
1423     8-3-10      156.105
1424     9-21-10     T.S.O. I
1425     9-7-10      52.15,
                     52.99
                     99.01 -
1426     11-16-10    99.15,
                     99.99
1428     2-8-11      156.105
1429     4-5-11      T.S.O. VII
1430     4-5-11      T.S.O. VII
1431     5-17-11     156.165
1432     5-17-11     T.S.O. VII
1436     6-21-11     T.S.O. VII
1438     8-2-11      156.105
1442     9-20-11     97.04
1443     10-18-11    156.165
1444     10-18-11    156.195
1447     1-17-12     T.S.O. V
1448     2-21-12     32.06
1449     2-21-12     34.20
1450     3-6-12      156.075
1451     3-6-12      156.122,
                     156.132
1452     3-6-12      T.S.O. VII
1453     3-20-12     Ch. 80, Sch. III
1454     4-3-12      Ch. 80, Sch. III
1456     4-17-12     T.S.O. V
1457     4-17-12     T.S.O. VII
1459     6-5-12      156.195
1463     7-3-12      156.075
1464     7-3-12      156.090
1465     7-17-12     Ch. 80, Sch. III
1466     8-7-12      T.S.O. VII
1467     9-4-12      T.S.O. V
1468     10-2-12     156.105
1470     10-30-12    T.S.O. VII
1471     10-30-12    T.S.O. VII
1472     11-20-12    156.060
1473     12-4-12     T.S.O. I
1474     11-20-12    T.S.O. VII
1475     12-18-12    156.090
1476     11-26-12    T.S.O. III
1477     12-4-12     31.90
1478     12-4-12     T.S.O. VII
1479     12-4-12     T.S.O. I
1482     1-15-13     T.S.O. I
1483     1-15-13     T.S.O. I
1484     1-15-13     T.S.O. VII
1485     2-19-13     52.15
1486     2-19-13     T.S.O. I
1487     3-5-13      51.17
1488     2-19-13     T.S.O. VII
1489     2-19-13     T.S.O. VII
1490     2-19-13     T.S.O. VII
1491     3-19-13     92.12
1492     4-2-13      150.01
1493     4-2-13      T.S.O. VII
1494     4-2-13      T.S.O. VII
1495     6-4-13      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1496     7-2-13      32.71
1497     7-2-13      Ch. 80, Sch. III
1499     7-16-13     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1503     10-15-13    156.180
1504     11-5-13     110.02,
                     110.05
1506     11-19-13    T.S.O. V
1509     1-21-14     T.S.O. V
1510     2-4-14      T.S.O. VII
1511     2-4-14      T.S.O. VII
1512     4-1-14      52.15,
                     52.99
1513     6-3-14      T.S.O. VII
1514     6-3-14      110.15,
                     110.99
1515     6-17-14     113.02
1516     7-1-14      110.15,
                     110.99
1517     7-15-14     99.06
1519     7-1-14      97.99
1522     8-19-14     T.S.O. I
1523     8-5-14      Adopting Ordinance
1524     8-5-14      T.S.O. III
1526     9-16-14     T.S.O. VII
1528     10-21-14    T.S.O. V
1530     1-6-15      156.130
1531     1-6-15      156.120
1532     2-3-15      157.01 -
                     157.21
1533     1-20-15     T.S.O. VII
1534     1-20-15     T.S.O. VII
1535     2-3-15      156.999
1536     2-17-15     91.43
1538     4-7-15      52.15,
                     52.99
1539     4-7-15      132.17
1540     5-5-15      51.17
1541     5-5-15      156.090
1543     6-2-15      93.045
1544     6-2-15      156.090
1545     6-2-15      156.105
1546     6-16-15     110.15
1548     7-21-15     52.25
1549     7-21-15     T.S.O. V
1552     10-6-15     T.S.O. VII
1555     11-3-15     75.10
                     99.01 -
1558     1-19-16     99.15,
                     99.99
1559     2-2-16      T.S.O. VII
1560     2-2-16      T.S.O. VII
1562     5-17-16     T.S.O. I
1563     5-3-16      T.S.O. V
1566     7-19-16     156.105
1570     9-20-16     Ch. 80, Sch. III
1572     11-1-16     Ch. 80, Sch. III
1573     11-1-16     T.S.O. VII
1575     1-17-17     35.20 -
                     35.25
1576     3-21-17     93.045
1577     3-21-17     110.05
1578     3-21-17     T.S.O. VII
1579     3-21-17     T.S.O. VII
1581     6-6-17      T.S.O. IV
1585     8-15-17     T.S.O. V
1589     9-19-17     T.S.O. IV
1590     9-19-17     156.090
1591     10-3-17     156.195
1595     12-5-17     156.195
1596     2-6-18      T.S.O. VII
1597     2-6-18      T.S.O. VII
1598     3-6-18      T.S.O. VII
1599     3-6-18      T.S.O. VII
1600     3-5-18      T.S.O. VII
1601     4-3-18      T.S.O. VII
1605     6-19-18     30.01
1609     7-17-18     158.01 -
                     158.06
1613     10-16-18    T.S.O. VII
1616     11-6-18     T.S.O. IV
1617     11-20-18    T.S.O. V
1618     12-18-18    35.40 -
                     35.45
1621     1-15-19     T.S.O. VII
1623     2-5-19      156.105
1624     2-19-19     T.S.O. VII
1625     2-19-19     T.S.O. VII
1626     4-2-19      115.01 -
                     115.08
1627     3-19-19     156.195
1628     3-19-19     T.S.O. VII
1629     3-19-19     T.S.O. VII
1630     3-19-19     T.S.O. VII
1631     4-16-19     81.01
1632     5-21-19     T.S.O. VII
1635     7-2-19      156.195
1639     8-6-19      Adopting Ordinance
1640     9-3-19      T.S.O. VII
1641     9-3-19      33.90
1642     10-15-19    156.195
1643     10-15-19    150.03
1644     10-15-19    156.090
1645     11-19-19    50.62
1646     10-15-19    Ch. 80, Sch. I
1649     11-19-19    T.S.O. VII
1650     12-3-19     T.S.O. VII
1651     12-3-19     T.S.O. VII
1652     1-7-20      T.S.O. VII
1653     2-18-20     33.90
1654     2-18-20     T.S.O. VII
1655     3-3-20      T.S.O. VII
1656     3-3-20      T.S.O. VII
1657     3-17-20     T.S.O. VII
1659     7-7-20      30.25
1660     7-7-20      156.090
1661     7-7-20      156.195
1665     10-6-20     50.50
1666     10-6-20     31.90
1667     11-3-20     Ch. 79, Sch.IV
1669     11-3-20     T.S.O. V
1670     12-15-20    100.01 -
                     100.08
1672     2-2-21      156.195
1673A    2-16-21     156.195
1674     4-6-21      T.S.O. VII
1675     4-6-21      T.S.O. VII
1678     6-15-21     156.090
1682     7-6-21      110.03
1683     7-6-21      110.08,
                     110.14
1685     8-17-21     T.S.O. I
1686     9-7-21      T.S.O. I
1687     8-17-21     156.200 -
                     156.202
1688     1-4-22      156.205,
                     156.999
1689     1-18-22     Ch. 80, Sch. III
1690     1-4-22      156.105
1691     2-1-22      T.S.O. VII
1692     2-1-22      T.S.O. VII
1693     2-15-22     156.008
1695     4-19-22     T.S.O. IV
1696     5-17-22     76.01,
                     76.02
1697     5-17-22     138.01,
                     138.02
1698A    6-21-22     156.105
1701     7-5-22      T.S.O. IV
1702     8-2-22   Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1703     8-2-22   Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1704     8-2-22   156.045
1705     8-16-22     154.03
1709     2-21-23     T.S.O. VII
1710     2-21-23     T.S.O. VII
1715     7-18-23     T.S.O. VII
1716     8-1-23      T.S.O. VII
                     116.01 -
1717     9-19-23     116.06,
                     116.99
1718     9-19-23     96.11
1719     10-3-23     156.215 -
                     156.224
                     117.01 -
1720     10-17-23    117.05,
                     117.99
1721     11-7-23     118.01 -
                     118.04
                     110.02,
1722     11-7-23     110.05,
                     110.10
1723     11-19-23    T.S.O. IV
                     101.01 -
1725     1-2-24      101.06,
                     101.99
1726     2-20-24     72.25
1727     2-6-24      T.S.O. VII
1728     2-6-24      T.S.O. VII
1729     4-16-24     102.01
                     110.01 -
                     110.11,
1730     4-16-24     110.13 -
                     110.15,
                     110.99
1731     4-16-24     T.S.O. VII
1732     5-7-24      T.S.O. VII
         
 
 
