VILLAGE CODE
of
POSEN, ILLINOIS
1965
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-19, passed 8-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Posen, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-19, passed August 12, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-01
 
AN ORDINANCE IMPLEMENTING A MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND A
MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX FOR THE VILLAGE OF POSEN
 
WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, provides that the
corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all ordinances and make all
rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers
granted to municipalities, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed
proper; and
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Posen is a home rule Illinois municipality pursuant to
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, as amended; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
provides that, beginning on January 1, 2026, all Illinois municipalities may
impose a tax “upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in the municipality” (the “Municipal Grocery Occupation Tax Law”) (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24); and
 
WHEREAS, the Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax may be imposed “at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts from these sales” (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24 (a)); and
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
requires any municipality imposing a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation
Tax under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24) to
also impose a Service Occupation Tax at the same rate, “upon all persons
engaged, in the municipality, in the business of making sales of service, who,
as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer groceries” as “an
incident to a sale of service” (the “Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax”)
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and,
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Posen believe
that it is appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents, that the Village levy a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation
Tax as permitted by Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
8-11-24); and,
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Posen believe
that it is appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents, that the Village levy a Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
as permitted by Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24); and,
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Posen as follows:
 
Section 1: Incorporation of Recitals. The foregoing recitals shall be and are
hereby incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set
forth herein.
 
Section 2:  Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed. A tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of such business while this Ordinance is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
 
Section 3:  Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales
of service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in Section 2, above. The imposition of this tax is in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
 
Section 4:  Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
 
Section 5:  Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24), the Village Clerk of the Village of Posen is hereby directed to file a
certified copy of this Ordinance with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or
before April 1, 2025.
 
Section 6: Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall take
effect on the later of: (i) January 1, 2026; (ii) the first day of July next
following the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the Department of
Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding April 1st; or, (iii) the first day
of January next following the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the
Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding October 1st.
 
Section 7:  Repeal of Conflicting Provisions. All ordinances, resolutions and
policies or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance
are, to the extent of the conflict, expressly repealed on the effective date of
this Ordinance.
 
Section 8:  Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or application
thereof to any person or circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this Ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid application or
provision, and each invalid provision or invalid application of this Ordinance
is severable.
 
Section 9:  Headings/Captions. The headings/captions identifying the various
sections and subsections of this Ordinance are for reference only and do not
define, modify, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions of the
Ordinance.
 
Section 10:  Publication. The Village Clerk of the Village of Posen is directed
by the corporate authorities to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This
Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its passage and publication
in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
 
 
 
Passed this 28th day of January, 2025, on the following roll call vote:
 
 
AYES: 5
 
NAYS: 0
 
ABSTAIN: 0
 
ABSENT: 2   
 
 
Approved by me this 28th day            Attested to and filed this 28th day
of January, 2025.             of January, 2025.
 
 
 
______________________________      _____________________________
Frank Podbielniak               Melanie Myers
Village President               Village Clerk
 
 
                     (SEAL)
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
VILLAGE OF POSEN, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE
OFFICIAL CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF POSEN.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF POSEN, COOK COUNTY,
ILLINOIS, that:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, this
Official Village Code of the Village of Posen, prepared by the Village
President, Village Board of Trustees, and the Village Attorney and printed by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., and hereby approved and accepted shall be the
Official Code of all Ordinances of a general and permanent character of the
Village.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
whereby each newly adopted Ordinance of a general nature, amending, altering,
adding to, or deleting provisions of this Official Village Code is identified
by the proper catch line, and following preparation by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
is inserted in the proper place in each of the Official copies.
   Section 3. At least three (3) copies of this Village Code shall at all times
be on file and available for inspection in the office of the Clerk.
   Section 4. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Village Code shall be fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for any one offense and the person may be confined in the Village or
County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or which a violation occurs
or continues.
Passed and approved by the President and Board of Trustees this 23rd day of
March, 1965.
         /s/Joseph J. Smaron
   President
ATTEST:
/s/ Steve S. Orrosa   
   Clerk
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Proof of Ordinances
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Rules of Construction
1-1-5: Price and Cost of Ordinances Printed in Book, Etc., Form
1-1-1: TITLE:
The ordinances contained in this and the following Chapters and Sections shall
constitute and be designated "The Posen Village Code of 1965" and may be so
cited. Any reference made to the number of any Section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate
Chapter and Title heading and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the Section itself, when reference is made to this Village Code
by title in any legal document.
1-1-2: PROOF OF ORDINANCES:
This Village Code, having been printed in book form and published by authority
of the President and Board of Trustees, shall hereafter be received in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of this State as prima facie
evidence of the contents, passage and legal publication of the ordinances
herein contained.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., or elsewhere as may be designated by the Board and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place
in each official copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
Village Code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage.
1-1-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the interpretation and construction of this Village Code, the following
rules of construction shall be observed unless they are inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Board or the context clearly requires otherwise.
   (A)    Severability of parts of Code. Should any section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Code be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining words, phrases,
clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since the same would
have been enacted by the Board without the incorporation in this Code of any
such invalid or unconstitutional word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section.
   (B)   Catchlines of sections. The catchlines of the several sections of this
Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section
and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
1-1-5: PRICE AND COST OF ORDINANCES PRINTED IN BOOK, ETC., FORM:
Whenever an ordinance imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture,
or making any appropriation shall be printed in book or pamphlet form,
published by authority of the Board, the Village' may impose a reasonable price
commensurate with the cost of the printing thereof for the distribution of such
book or pamphlet to the public.
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the effective date of
this Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as
being still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from
which are excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax
levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries
and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the Village; the zoning ordinance and all amendments thereof, and all
special ordinances, excepting as this Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or
by virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this Village Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect of such
provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be applied to any judgement announced after the
new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding Section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the Village herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the Village under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this
Village Code.
CHAPTER 3
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-3-1: Maximum Penalty
1-3-2: Default; Labor
1-3-3: License
1-3-4: Application
1-3-5: Liability Of Officers
1-3-1: MAXIMUM PENALTY:
Any person adjudicated to be in violation of any section of this code may be
fined for each such offense, a sum not to exceed the maximum fine which the
village can impose for such violation pursuant to the laws of the state of
Illinois, or may be confined in the village or county jail for a period not
exceeding the maximum period of incarceration which the village can impose for
such violation pursuant to the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-
12-2008)
1-3-2: DEFAULT; LABOR:
Any person in default of payment of any fine or costs imposed may be committed
to the village or county jail until the fine, penalty and costs are fully paid.
Any person imprisoned under the provisions of this chapter may be put to work
for the benefit of the village for the term of his imprisonment. The committed
person shall be allowed, exclusive of board, a credit of five dollars ($5.00)
for each day's work. (1965 Code)
No prisoner shall be required to work on Sunday. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-3-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code any
license previously issued to him by the village may be revoked as provided by
ordinance. (1965 Code)
1-3-4: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced; and, providing further that this section shall in no
way bar multiple prosecutions for violations of more than one section of this
code.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1965 Code)
1-3-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1965
Code)
CHAPTER 4
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Definitions, General
1-4-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ACTION: Shall include suits, prosecutions and all judicial proceedings.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD OR THE BOARD: The board of trustees of the village of Posen, Illinois.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this village code.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and board of trustees, collectively.
COUNTY: The words "county" or "the county" mean Cook County in the state of
Illinois.
COURT: Includes all courts of record, and when applicable, the system of
administrative adjudications set forth in this title.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village of Posen".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
IN THE VILLAGE OR WITHIN THE VILLAGE: Means and includes all territory over
which the village now has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the
exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or persons.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MEMBER: A village trustee.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence", and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village, or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
the community.
NUMBER: Words importing the singular number may extend and be applied to
several persons or things and words importing the plural may include the
singular.
OATH: Shall be deemed to include an affirmation and the word "sworn" shall be
construed to include the word "affirmed".
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: Applied to a building or land, mean any person who holds a
written or an oral lease of or actually occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, either alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICER: Whenever the title of any village officer is used, it shall be
construed as if the words "of the village of Posen" followed it.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
land trustee, beneficiary of a land trust, tenant in common, tenant in
partnership, joint tenant of the whole or any part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership of any kind (including, without limitation,
any general partnership and/or limited liability partnership), association,
organization of any kind, corporation of any kind (including, without
limitation, any for profit corporation, not for profit corporation and/or
limited liability corporation), estate, trust, joint stock association, any
unit of government and/or any subdivision of any unit of government, and
includes any executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, assignee or personal
representative of any of the persons or entities described in this definition.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property, except "real property"
as defined in this section.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PRESIDENT: The president of the village of Posen.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments and shall
embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
SEAL: The seal of the village of Posen.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE OR THE STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right for purposes of traffic.
TENSE: Words in the present tense include the future.
VILLAGE OR THE VILLAGE: The village of Posen in Cook County, state of Illinois,
except as otherwise provided.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year unless otherwise expressed. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2008-
04, 2-12-2008)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
1-5-1: Legislative Body
1-5-2: Regular Meetings
1-5-3: Special Meetings
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Agenda And Order Of Business
1-5-6: Preservation Of Order
1-5-7: Motions And Resolutions
1-5-8: Taking Of Vote
1-5-9: Presence Of Question
1-5-10: Adjournment
1-5-11: Previous Question
1-5-12: Lay On The Table
1-5-13: Indefinite Postponement; Reference
1-5-14: Amendments; Substitutions
1-5-15: Reconsideration
1-5-16: Regular Committees
1-5-17: Committee Meetings
1-5-18: Reports Of Committees
1-5-19: Ordinances; Expenditures
1-5-20: Suspension Of Rules
1-5-21: Censure
1-5-22: Rules Of Parliamentary Procedure
1-5-23: Compensation
1-5-1: LEGISLATIVE BODY:
The legislative and governing body of the village shall consist of the
president and six (6) trustees, who shall possess the qualifications for
office, be elected by the legal voters of the municipality, take the oath of
office and perform the duties provided by the state statutes. (1965 Code)
1-5-2: REGULAR MEETINGS:
Committee meetings of the president and board of trustees shall be held on the
second and fourth Tuesday evenings of each month at six thirty (6:30) P.M. at
the village of Posen municipal building, 2440 W. Walter Zimny Drive, Posen,
Illinois. Regular Village Board meetings of the president and board of trustees
shall be held on the second the fourth Tuesday evenings of each month
immediately following the Committee meetings at the village of Posen municipal
building, 2440 W. Walter Zimny Drive, Posen, Illinois. Either meeting may be
held on and/or at such other time, date and/or location as the village
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, may determine.
In case the meeting date should fall on a legal holiday, then such meeting
shall be held on a day designated by the president with the advice and consent
of the board of trustees. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 5-24-
2022)
1-5-3: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings may be held at any time on call for the same by the president
or any three (3) or more trustees which call shall be in writing, duly signed
and presented to the clerk who shall proceed immediately to prepare notices of
the same and cause them to be served on the president and members of the board
of trustees in the usual manner at least twenty four (24) hours before the time
of the meeting. Such notices shall describe in brief the nature or objects of
the call.
At every special meeting the call therefor shall be read and then filed by the
clerk. No business other than that proposed by the call shall be in order at
such meeting. (1965 Code)
1-5-4: QUORUM:
A majority of the board elected shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and may compel the attendance of
absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by the provisions of this
code. (1965 Code)
1-5-5: AGENDA AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The agenda and order of business for meetings of the village board shall be set
by the village president, who shall submit the same to the village clerk no
less than forty eight (48) hours before each such meeting; provided that a
matter shall be added to the agenda for a meeting of the village board upon
written request therefor, executed by a majority of the trustees then holding
office and submitted to the village clerk not less than forty eight (48) hours
before the village board meeting to which such agenda item pertains. All
questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the village
president, without debate, subject to appeal. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-6: PRESERVATION OF ORDER:
The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may speak to points
of order in reference to other members, and shall decide all questions of
order, subject to an appeal to the village board, on which appeal no member
shall speak more than once without the unanimous consent of the board. (1965
Code; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
While the presiding officer is putting the question, or while business is being
transacted, no member shall walk across or out of the village board room except
by consent of the board. (1965 Code)
Every member, previous to his speaking, making a motion or seconding the same,
shall address himself to the presiding officer, and say, "Mr. President" but
shall not proceed with his remarks until recognized and named by the chair.
(1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
When two (2) or more trustees simultaneously seek the presiding officer's
recognition, the presiding officer shall determine which trustee shall be
recognized first. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding officer shall
have the power to require the room to be cleared if necessary. (1965 Code)
1-5-7: MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS:
No motion shall be put or debated unless it be seconded. When a motion is
seconded it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and the
proposer of the motion shall be entitled to the floor. (1965 Code; amd. Ord.
2008-04, 2-12-2008)
After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer it shall be
deemed to be in possession of the board, but may be withdrawn at any time
before decision or amendment, by unanimous consent of the board.
If the question under consideration contains several distinct propositions, any
member may have the same divided when the sense admits of it.
In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered on the minutes of the
board, the names of the trustees moving and seconding the same shall be entered
also. (1965 Code)
All proposed ordinances and resolutions before being presented shall be reduced
to writing and submitted to the clerk, who shall read the title of the
ordinance or resolution. The village clerk shall read the full text of the
ordinance or resolution only if directed to do so by the village president, a
majority of the trustees then present or other law. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-8: TAKING OF VOTE:
A roll call vote shall be taken and entered on the minutes when:
   (A)   A roll call vote is legally required to be taken; or
   (B)   The village president or any trustee requests that a roll call vote be
taken, provided that the request is made before any vote on the question. (Ord.
2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-9: PRESENCE OF QUESTION:
When a blank is to be filled and different sums or times are proposed, the
question shall be taken first on the lesser sum or the longest time.
When a question is under debate the only motion or order shall be:
   (A)   To adjourn to a day certain.
   (B)   To adjourn.
   (C)   To lay on the table.
   (D)   The previous question.
   (E)   To refer.
   (F)   To amend.
   (G)   To substitute.
   (H)   To postpone indefinitely or to a day certain.
Subsections (B), (C) and (D) of this section are to be decided without debate.
(1965 Code)
1-5-10: ADJOURNMENT:
A motion to adjourn the board shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor.
   (B)   While the yeas and nays are being called.
   (C)   When the members are voting.
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion.
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
A motion simply to adjourn cannot be amended, but a motion to adjourn to a time
named may be and is open to debate. (1965 Code)
1-5-11: PREVIOUS QUESTION:
When the previous question is moved and seconded it shall be put in this form:
"Shall the main question now be put?" If this is carried, all further
amendments and all further motions and debates shall be excluded, and the
question put without delay, upon the pending amendments in proper order, and
then upon the main question. (1965 Code)
1-5-12: LAY ON THE TABLE:
A motion to simply lay a question on the table is not debatable; but a motion
to lay on the table and publish, or any other condition, is subject to
amendment and debate.
A motion to take subject matter from the table may be proposed at the same
meeting; provided, two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present vote therefor.
(1965 Code)
1-5-13: INDEFINITE POSTPONEMENT; REFERENCE:
When a motion is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the
same meeting. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence
of a similar motion for a special committee. (1965 Code)
1-5-14: AMENDMENTS; SUBSTITUTIONS:
A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend an amendment
to an amendment shall not be entertained.
An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but an
amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
On an amendment to "strike out and insert" the paragraph to be amended shall
first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out and
those to be inserted and, finally, the paragraph as it will stand if so amended
shall be read.
A substitute for any original proposition in debate may be entertained when
further amendment is not admissible; but if accepted by the mover of such
original proposition, or by the board by vote, it shall entirely supersede the
original proposition and cut off all amendments appertaining thereto. (1965
Code)
1-5-15: RECONSIDERATION:
A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting or
at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for reconsideration
being once made and decided in the negative shall not be renewed nor shall a
vote to reconsider be reconsidered.
No vote of the board of trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a
special meeting unless at such special meeting there be present as large a
number of trustees as were present when such vote was taken.
A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted in the
majority; provided, however, that where a motion is lost by reason of not
receiving a two-thirds (2/3) vote required for its passage, a motion to
reconsider may be made and seconded by those voting in the minority. (1965
Code)
1-5-16: REGULAR COMMITTEES:
All regular committees shall be appointed by the village president in May of
each year. Special committees may be appointed by the village president. (Ord.
93-27, 11-22-1993)
The regular committees shall be those designated herein and such other
committees created by the village president or the board of trustees. Each
regular committee shall consist of three (3) trustees. The village president
shall be an ex officio member of each regular committee. The village president
shall designate one member of each committee to serve as chair of that
committee. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
The six (6) committees and general areas of responsibility shall be: (Ord. 93-
27, 11-22-1993)
   (A)   Administration: Personnel, license, village code amendments.
   (B)   Finance: Budget, appropriations, levy.
   (C)   Public works: Water and sewer systems, municipal buildings, streets,
sidewalks, village properties.
   (D)   Public safety: Emergency communications, emergency medical services,
fire department, police department.
   (E)   Community health: Building permits, building code enforcement, refuse
collection.
   (F)   Community development: Administrative court, community development
block grants, zoning. (Ord. 96-10, 4-23-1996)
Special committees appointed by the village president shall be discharged upon
acceptance of the special committees' final reports unless otherwise provided
by the village board. (Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
1-5-17: COMMITTEE MEETINGS:
Regular committee meetings will be held as provided by annual resolution of the
village board as approved and published in January of each year. (Ord. 82-8, 3-
24-1982)
Special meetings of committees shall be called upon no less than forty eight
(48) hours' notice to all members by the committee chair. The calling,
convening and holding of such special meetings shall also comply with the open
meetings act. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
Committee members shall attend at the scheduled meeting time or, if unable to
attend, shall notify the committee chairman.
Communications, petitions, proposed ordinances and resolutions, may be referred
to the appropriate committee as announced by the village president.
All persons seeking to address the village board on, or seeking the board's
consideration of, any topic, request, question or petition, shall attend a
meeting of the committee concerned with the subject matter of the topic,
request, question, or petition, or, at the option of the supplicant, the
finance committee meeting. At said committee meeting, the supplicant shall
state the topic, request, question, or petition to be addressed to, or for the
concern of the entire board. Upon the committee's approval, the committee
chairman may present said topic, request, question, or petition to the village
board, and any details pertaining thereto, for the board's consideration as a
part of the committee's report. (Ord. 82-8, 3-24-1982)
1-5-18: REPORTS OF COMMITTEES:
The chair of each regular and special committee shall report to the corporate
authorities on the status of matters referred to his or her committee at each
regular meeting of the board, unless the village president or a majority of the
board waives this requirement. Other members of regular and special committees
may report to the board at the same time when those members dissent from the
conclusions included in the report presented by the chair of the committee to
which the member belongs. Reports by the chair and dissenting members of such
committees may be provided orally or in writing. The chair of each such
committee may also report to the board on matters of interest which are within
the committee's jurisdiction. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-19: ORDINANCES; EXPENDITURES:
The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and on all
propositions to create any liability against the village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of any money. A concurrence of a majority of all
the members elected shall be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or
proposition. It shall require a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members
elected to sell any village property. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-20: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
These rules may be temporarily suspended by a vote of two- thirds (2/3) of the
trustees present, but shall not be repealed, altered or amended unless notice
thereof shall have been given in writing, and the alteration or amendment
submitted at least one meeting prior thereto, and two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees entitled by law to be elected, shall concur therein. (1965 Code)
1-5-21: CENSURE:
Any member acting or appearing in a disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious
or insulting language to or about any member of the board of trustees, or who
does not obey the order of the chair, shall be on motion censured by a majority
vote of the members present.
No person not a member of the village board shall address the board without the
unanimous consent of the members present. (1965 Code)
1-5-22: RULES OF PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE:
The rules of parliamentary procedure comprised in the most recent edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order Newly Revised" shall govern the corporate authorities
in all cases to which they are applicable and not inconsistent with this code.
(Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-5-23: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the board of trustees elected after enactment of this section
shall receive compensation in the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
per month salary and an additional seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each
meeting of the board of trustees actually attended, provided, however, the said
trustees shall receive compensation for not more than one meeting in each week.
All trustees shall be allowed two (2) absences in each year for which
compensation shall be paid as set by this section. A village trustee may miss
more than two (2) meetings per year and still receive payment at the
compensation stated provided an absent trustee can show due cause for each
additional absence; for example, illness of the trustee, serious illness of a
member of the trustee's immediate family, a death in the trustee's family, or
other like cause.
Any trustee not receiving two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month salary
shall be entitled at their option to payment from the treasurer up to two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month as and for expenses.
The salary and compensation specified herein shall be effective commencing with
the next term of office of the village trustees, for which the election is to
be held in April 2001. (Ord. 00-15, 10-3-2000)
CHAPTER 6
DATUM AND CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Datum
1-6-2: Corporate Seal
1-6-1: DATUM:
All elevations shall be referred to City of Chicago Datum. (1965 Code)
1-6-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the village of Posen, Illinois, shall be as follows:
(Ord. 75-3, 7-8-1975)
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL YEAR AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Fiscal Year
1-7-2: Warrants; Signature
1-7-3: Contracts For Bids
1-7-4: Surety Bonds
1-7-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 of the year following. (1965 Code)
1-7-2: WARRANTS; SIGNATURE:
All warrants drawn upon the treasurer must be signed by the president and
countersigned by the clerk and must state the particular fund to which same is
chargeable and the person to whom payable, and for what purpose the same was
drawn and no money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. (1965
Code)
1-7-3: CONTRACTS FOR BIDS:
All contracts for supplies of any kind or nature let by an officer of the
village or board of trustees, where the amount of such contract exceeds twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be furnished by contract and let to the
lowest responsible bidder, after advertising for the same unless the board
specifically waives this provision before purchasing supplies. (Ord. 2001-23,
11-27-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
Advertising shall be made and bids submitted and received by the clerk. (Ord.
2001-23, 11-27-2001)
1-7-4: SURETY BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a prerequisite
to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the issuance of a
license or permit or the exercise of any special privilege, the surety on such
bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in this
state as a surety company, in the absence of specific provision to the contrary
by the provisions of this code. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 8
OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Designation Of Officers
1-8-2: Term Of Officers
1-8-3: Oath
1-8-4: Bonds
1-8-5: Execution Of Bonds
1-8-6: Approval
1-8-7: Failure To Qualify
1-8-8: Salaries
1-8-9: Surrendering Property To Successor
1-8-10: Duties
1-8-11: Records; Examination
1-8-12: Office Hours
1-8-13: Village Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-8-1: DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS:
The officers of the village, to be appointed by the village president and
approved by the board of trustees, whose offices are hereby created and
established, are the following:
   (A)   Treasurer.
   (B)   Police chief.
   (C)   Fire chief.
   (D)   Superintendent of public works.
   (E)   Building commissioner.
   (F)   Electrical inspector.
   (G)   Plumbing inspector.
   (H)   Village engineer.
   (I)   Village attorney.
   (J)   Village auditor.
   (K)   Police and fire commission.
   (L)   Assistant fire chief.
   (M)   Assistant superintendent of public works.
All officers, appointees, or employees may, from time to time, be suspended or
removed from office by the village president, as provided by law. All vacancies
may be filled in a manner similar to the official appointment. (Ord. 97-09, 5-
27-1997)
1-8-2: TERM OF OFFICERS:
All such officers shall hold their appointive offices until the first Monday of
May in each year following their appointments and until their successors shall
have been appointed and qualified; subject, however, to removal at any time by
the president and board of trustees, with or without specification of cause
therefor. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-3: OATH:
All officers of the village, whether elected or appointed, shall, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of              to the best of my
ability.
The person taking the oath or affirmation shall subscribe to it in writing and
that written subscription shall be filed in the office of the clerk. (Ord.
2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-8-4: BONDS:
The officers of the village shall give bonds in the sums and within the time
respectively stated in the provisions of this code defining the powers and
duties of the several officers, and departments of the village. In all cases
not specifically provided for, the officers shall give such bonds and within
such time as the president and board of trustees may require, or as required by
law. Should good cause exist, in the judgment and discretion of the board of
trustees, any officer may be required, from time to time, to give additional
bonds in such sum and within such time as the board may by resolution direct.
(Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-5: EXECUTION OF BONDS:
The bond of each officer, shall be executed with two (2) or more sureties
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his office, the
payment to the proper officer of all monies coming into his hands by virtue of
his office. Each of said sureties shall be freeholders of Cook County and shall
schedule real estate herein, clear of all encumbrances and other legal
obligations, in value not less than the penal sum of said bond, which schedule
shall be made separately by said sureties and sworn to before some officer
authorized to administer oaths, and attached to said bond. Provided, that any
officer of the village may procure as surety upon any bond he may be required
to give, any responsible surety company or corporation; and provided, further,
that no member of the board shall sign any bond in any case wherein the village
is interested. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-6: APPROVAL:
The bonds of all officers shall be subject to the approval of the president and
board of trustees. After the approval as aforesaid, the clerk shall endorse
thereon the date thereof and file the same in his office, except the bond of
the clerk, which shall be filed with the treasurer. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-7: FAILURE TO QUALIFY:
If any person elected or appointed to any office shall fail to qualify by
taking, subscribing and filing the oath of office, and making, executing and
filing his official bond, as herein provided, within ten (10) days after he is
officially notified of his election or appointment, the office shall become
vacant. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-8: SALARIES:
Unless otherwise specified in this code, the salary and pay of all officers and
employees shall be paid semimonthly to each person entitled thereto. No
officer, deputy to an officer, employee, inspector or person acting as a
representative of the village, shall retain any license fee, permit fee,
inspection fee or compensation for any service in his capacity as such, for any
thing, act or service required to be done or authorized by the provisions of
this code, but all fees are to be turned over to the collector. (Ord. 78-5, 4-
11-1978)
1-8-9: SURRENDERING PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Any person having been an officer or employee, whose term has expired or who
has resigned or been removed from office, shall within ten (10) days after
notification and request, deliver to his successor in office all property,
books and effects of every description in his possession belonging to the
village or appertaining to his office. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-10: DUTIES:
Each officer, besides the specific duties which may be required of him by
virtue of his said office, shall also perform such other and further duties and
be subject to such rules and regulations as the president and board may, from
time to time, require, or by ordinance provide and establish. (Ord. 78-5, 4-11-
1978)
1-8-11: RECORDS; EXAMINATION:
All books, papers, vouchers, warrants, entries, accounts and memoranda of each
and every officer and employee of the village may be examined at any time by
the president, and the president and board of trustees may, by resolution, call
upon any officer to make a report in writing of any subject matter which said
board may designate and within such time as said resolution may prescribe.
(Ord. 78-5, 4-11-1978)
1-8-12: OFFICE HOURS:
Unless otherwise provided, the village's administrative office shall be open
for business at the Posen municipal building during such times designated by
the village president. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-8-13: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   (A)   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section), are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering of making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities.
   (I)   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   (J)   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village. (Ord. 2004-07, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
CHAPTER 9
PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Election; Qualifications
1-9-2: Bond
1-9-3: Executive Duties; Compensation
1-9-4: President Pro Tem And Temporary Chair
1-9-5: Appointments
1-9-6: General Duties
1-9-7: Approval; Veto
1-9-8: Signature
1-9-9: Release Prisoners
1-9-10: Conveyance Of Tax Titles
1-9-11: Powers As To Litigation
1-9-12: Right Of Removal
1-9-13: Civil Emergencies
1-9-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be elected at the regular annual Village election for the year
1953, and every four (4) years thereafter, a President of the Village, who
shall hold his office for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and
qualified; he shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, and
shall have resided within the corporate limits at least one (1) year next
preceding the election at which he is a candidate. (1965 Code)
1-9-2: BOND 1 :
The President shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office execute a
bond to the Village in the penal sum of not less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). (Ord. 2017-09, 7-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-9-3: EXECUTIVE DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
   (A)   Duties: The Village President shall perform the duties and exercise
the powers conferred upon the Mayor of a city, as provided by the Illinois
Municipal Code.
   (B)   Time: The Village President shall devote such time to the duties of
his office as the faithful discharge thereof may require. (Ord. 85-1, 1-8-1985)
   (C)   Compensation: The compensation of the Village President shall be
twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) per annum; said salary and compensation of
the Village President shall be payable monthly at one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per month.
   The salary and compensation specified herein shall be effective commencing
with the next term of Office of the Village President of Posen. (Ord. 00-13,
10-3-2000)
   (D)   Veto Power: The President of the Village may exercise the same veto
power, and with like effect, as the Mayor of a city; and the Board of Trustees
may pass ordinances over such veto in like manner as a city council. (Ord. 85-
1, 1-8-1985)
   (E)   Local Liquor Control Commissioner:
      1.   The Village of Posen's Local Liquor Control Commissioner is the
President of the Village of Posen (Posen's Mayor) pursuant to Illinois State
Statute1.
      2.   The annual compensation for the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall be eight thousand five hundred dollars ($8,500.00), payable in equal
monthly installments on the first of each month. (Ord. 2014-06, 4-22-2014)
1-9-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEM AND TEMPORARY CHAIR:
   (A)   Appointment: The Village President, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees, shall appoint one of the members of the Village
Board of Trustees to act as Village President Pro Tem for a one (1) year term.
   (B)   Duties:
      1.   The Village President Pro Tem shall perform all of the duties of the
Village President during an absence or disability of the Village President
which doenot otherwise create a vacancy in the office. Absence of the Village
President shall occur whenever the exercise of Village Presidential duties and/
or powers requires the physical presence of the Village President, and the
Village President is not able to be physically present: a) at a previously
scheduled event; or b) within an hour following notice given by the village
administrator or village clerk.
      2.   In the event the Village President fails, or is otherwise unable, to
attend a meeting of the Village Board or a portion thereof, the Village
President Pro Tem shall chair the meeting; and while so serving as chairman,
shall have the right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee. In the absence of
both the Village President and Village President Pro Tem from a meeting of the
Village Board, the Village Board shall elect one of its members to act as a
temporary chairman.
   (C)   Term: The Trustee serving as Village President Pro Tem shall serve for
one (1) year or until:
      1.   Such Trustee resigns as Village President Pro Tem;
      2.   Such Trustee is no longer a Village Trustee;
      3.   By appointment of a new Village President Pro Tem by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board; or
      4.   The first Village Board meeting one (1) year after the date of
appointment by the Village President.
   (D)   Remote Participation: Nothing herein shall limit or otherwise prevent
the Village President from attending a Village Board Meeting remotely as
provided by Village Code and Illinois law. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008; amd. Ord.
2023-15, 4-25-2023)
1-9-5: APPOINTMENTS:
The President and Board shall appoint all officers of the Village whose
appointments are not otherwise provided for by statute; and whenever a vacancy
shall occur in any office which by statute or ordinance the President is
authorized to fill, he shall, at the regular meeting of the Board next
occurring, communicate the name of his appointee to such office, and pending
the approval or rejection by the Board as to such appointment, he may designate
some suitable person to discharge the duties of said office. (1965 Code)
1-9-6: GENERAL DUTIES:
The President shall supervise the conduct of all appointed officers and see
that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices, he shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made against them and
cause all their neglects or violations of duties to be promptly corrected, and
he shall from time to time give the Board of Trustees such information relative
to the affairs of the Village as he may deem proper and recommend to their
consideration any measure he may deem expedient, tending to the well being,
security and improvement of the Village. (1965 Code)
1-9-7: APPROVAL; VETO:
The President shall carefully inspect all ordinances passed by the Board of
Trustees and fix his official signature to such as he may approve and return
them to the Clerk; such ordinance as he shall not approve shall be returned to
the Board, with his objections thereto in writing, at the next regular meeting,
occurring after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any one (1) or
more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance making appropriations,
or to the entire ordinance and in case the veto only extends to a part of such
ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force; but in case
the President shall fail to return any ordinance with his objections thereto by
the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and the
same shall take effect accordingly. (1965 Code)
1-9-8: SIGNATURE:
The President shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits and warrants,
granted, issued or ordered by the Board, or authorized by the provisions of
this Code, except for permits provided to be issued by or under the signature
of the Health Officer or Fire Chief, and may revoke any such licenses for any
violations of the provisions of this Code. (1965 Code)
1-9-9: RELEASE PRISONERS:
The President may for good and sufficient reasons release any person imprisoned
for violation of any provisions of this Code. The President shall cause a
proper record thereof to be made, and shall report such release with the cause
therefor to the Board at its first session thereafter. (1965 Code)
1-9-10: CONVEYANCE OF TAX TITLES:
Upon such terms as may be agreed upon with the consent of the Finance Committee
of the Board, the President and Treasurer may sell and convey any and all lots
and parcels of land to which a title is held by the Village under sale and
conveyance for the Village taxes or assessments. (1965 Code)
1-9-11: POWERS AS TO LITIGATION:
The President shall sign, and is hereby authorized to sign all instruments
necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense of any or all actions brought by
or against the Village, including bonds for injunction. (1965 Code)
1-9-12: RIGHT OF REMOVAL:
The President shall have the power, in his discretion, to remove all officers
or employees of the Village appointed by him, or any predecessor, from their
position in, or employment by, the Village. (1965 Code)
1-9-13: CIVIL EMERGENCIES:
   (A)    Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
              1.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
           violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to execute
           by three or more persons acting together without authority of law; or
CIVIL         2.   Any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including outbreak of
EMERGENCY: disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, or
           eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits of the village,
           resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the destruction of
           property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect
           the public health, safety and welfare.
           Prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing or motoring
CURFEW:    upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the
           corporate limits of the village except officials of any governmental unit and
           persons officially designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
 
   (B)   Proclamation of Emergency. Whenever a civil emergency exists, the
village president is authorized to declare the existence of a local state of
emergency by means of a written declaration. The declaration shall be made
under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the civil emergency,
describe the nature of the civil emergency, and declare that a local State of
Emergency exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this article.
The declaration shall be filed with the village clerk as soon as practicable
after issuance.
   (C)   Executive Orders. After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the village president may, in addition to such other powers, take
any or all of the following actions by executive order during the state of
civil emergency in the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address
the issues caused or threatened by the civil emergency:
      1.   Impose a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
village or to the village as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of
the public safety and welfare;
      2.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the village for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
      3.   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Village President shall
be authorized to approve new spending by the village during the existence of
the local state of emergency;
      4.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
      5.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
      6.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      7.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and,
      8.   Do all such other things reasonably necessary to respond to the
civil emergency.
   (D)   Penalty. Violations of any executive order issued during a state of
local emergency shall be punishable by fine in an amount of not less than two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250) and not more than two thousand dollars
($2,000) for each offense.
   (E)   Duration of State of Emergency. A declaration herein authorized shall
be effective until the adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of
the board of trustees, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the
village president indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
   (F)   Notice. As soon as is reasonably practicable following the issuance of
a proclamation of a local state of emergency, a copy thereof shall be:
      1.   Posted on the village's website, at the village hall, and at the
police station; and
      2.   Provided to news media situated in the village. (Ord. 2020-18, 6-9-
2020)
CHAPTER 10
CLERK
SECTION:
1-10-1: Bond
1-10-2: Election; Term; Duties
1-10-3: Keeper Of The Seal And Records
1-10-4: Record Ordinances
1-10-5: Notify Persons Elected
1-10-6: File Tax Levy
1-10-7: Keep Records Of Warrants
1-10-8: Report Of Expenses
1-10-9: Petitions; Communications
1-10-10: Compensation
1-10-1: BOND:
The Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, extend to the
Village a bond in the penal sum of not less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the Board, conditioned as provided
by the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-2: ELECTION; TERM; DUTIES:
The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four-year term and until a
successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute. The Village Clerk
may also serve as the appointed Village Collector and receive compensation
therefor. The Clerk shall in addition to the duties now imposed by statute
perform the following duties:
   (A)   He shall keep his office, in the Village Hall, open for the
transaction of Village business during usual daily business hours.
   (B)   He shall issue notices of meetings to the President and members of the
Board, and when directed by that body, to the members of the different
committees of that body and to all persons whose attendance will be required
before that body or any such committee when so directed, he shall also issue
and cause to be served notices of said meetings.
   (C)   He shall attest all the licenses granted by the President or Board
under the provisions of this Code.
   (D)   He shall without delay deliver to the officers of the Village and to
the various committees, all bills, resolutions, communications and other
documents referring to such officers and committees.
   (E)   He shall without delay deliver to the President all ordinances or
resolutions under his charge which may require approval or other action by the
President with all papers and information on which the same were founded.
   (F)   He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by the
President and Board and the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-3: KEEPER OF THE SEAL AND RECORDS:
The Clerk shall keep the Corporate Seal and affix the same to all papers which
require it. He shall keep all records and papers belonging to the Village and
attend all meetings of the President and Board and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the journal. He shall prepare all warrants for the payment of
money, countersign and deliver same when called for, after they have been
signed by the President, taking a proper receipt therefor. He shall make proper
copies of all papers duly filed in his office and make transcripts from the
journal and other records and files of his office, certified by him under the
Corporate Seal. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-4: RECORD ORDINANCES:
All ordinances passed by the President and Board shall be recorded by the Clerk
in a book kept for that purpose before the next regular meeting after they go
into effect.
If the ordinance requires publication, he shall cause the same to be duly
published. The Clerk shall note at the foot of the record of each ordinance a
memorandum of the date of its passage and approval or otherwise becoming
effective, and if published the date of the publication of such ordinances. The
original shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk with a certificate of
publication or posting attached to ordinances requiring publication. (Ord.
2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-5: NOTIFY PERSONS ELECTED:
It shall be the duty of the Clerk, within five (5) days after the result of an
election is declared or an appointment made, to notify in writing all persons
elected or appointed to office. Unless such persons shall respectively qualify
in ten (10) days after such notice, the office shall become and be vacant.
(Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-6: FILE TAX LEVY:
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, on or before the deadline set by the
laws of the State of Illinois, to each year file with the County Clerk, a
certified copy of the ordinance in which taxes are levied and assessed by the
Village for the current fiscal year. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-7: KEEP RECORDS OF WARRANTS:
The Clerk shall, on the stubs of his warrant books, make a full record of the
dates, amounts and parties of each warrant issued and on what fund issued; he
shall also keep a record book showing, under separate headings as to each fund,
the same facts as to all warrants issued by him for any purpose on such fund,
and also showing the same as paid and canceled by the Treasurer, and the exact
amounts of principal and interest actually paid thereon. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-
2018)
1-10-8: REPORT OF EXPENSES:
The Clerk shall, on or before May 1 in each year and before the time for making
the annual appropriation, submit to the President and Board a report of his
estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary to defray the expenses of the
Village during the current fiscal year. He shall in said report class the
different objects and branches of expenditure, giving as nearly as may be the
amount required for each and for the purposes of the above statement and report
he is authorized to require from each officer his statement of the condition
and expense of his respective department or office, with any proposed
improvements and the probable expenses thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished, and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year. In such report he shall give such other information as he may
deem necessary, to the end that the President and Board may fully understand
the financial necessities of the current year. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-9: PETITIONS; COMMUNICATIONS:
All petitions, remonstrances, bids, bills, or other communications addressed to
the Village or Board shall be received by the Clerk and read by him at the
Board meeting next succeeding their receipt, unless otherwise ordered by the
Board. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
1-10-10: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Village Clerk shall be the sum of seven thousand two
hundred dollars ($7,200.00) per annum to be paid out of the General Fund for
the proper appropriation for all of the Village Clerk's services, including,
without limitation, attending meetings, keeping minutes, records, seal, and
files and recording the same; for the Village Clerk's keeping and attending his
or her office at the Village Hall; and for the Village Clerk's general clerical
duties relating to the business of the Village. The salary and compensation
specified herein for the Village Clerk shall be effective commencing with the
next term of Office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Posen. All fees
collected by the Village Clerk are to be paid to the Village Treasury. (Ord.
2018-27, 10-23-2018)
CHAPTER 11
ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Qualifications
1-11-2: Duties
1-11-3: Opinions
1-11-4: Delivery To Successor
1-11-5: Compensation
1-11-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The village attorney shall be licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois
and designated as active status with the attorney registration and disciplinary
commission. The village attorney shall maintain professional liability
insurance disclosing representation of the village of Posen at all times while
engaged as the village attorney. (Ord. 2007-08, 5-12-2007)
1-11-2: DUTIES:
He shall conduct all the law business of the village and draw such ordinances,
deeds, leases and other papers as may be required of him by the president and
board or any committee thereof. He shall at the direction of the president,
negotiate contracts and contract related matters with all labor bargaining
units recognized by the village. He shall be present to advise the president
and board of trustees at village board meetings. (Ord. 2007-08, 5-12-2007)
1-11-3: OPINIONS:
He shall give his opinion in writing to the president or board or committee
thereof when requested, on legal questions arising under or concerning any
ordinance of the village, and on subjects in which the village shall have a law
related interest. (Ord. 2007-08, 5-12-2007)
1-11-4: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR:
Upon the expiration of his term of office, he shall immediately turn over to
his successor in office all dockets, deeds, leases or other papers in his
possession or control belonging to the village or delivered to him by the
village or any of its officers and all papers in actions prosecuted or defended
by him pending and undetermined. (Ord. 2007-08, 5-12-2007)
1-11-5: COMPENSATION:
The village attorney shall be paid at an hourly rate established by the
president and approved by the board. A flat rate may be established for
regularly recurring meetings, court and hearing calls. The village attorney
shall not be paid on a percentage basis for the recovery of damages, fees, bond
work or special assessments. (Ord. 2007-08, 5-12-2007)
CHAPTER 12
TREASURER
SECTION:
1-12-1: Bond
1-12-2: Monies Received
1-12-3: Books Of Account
1-12-4: Duties
1-12-5: Compensation
1-12-6: Withdrawal Of Funds
1-12-1: BOND 1 :
The Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall execute to
the Village a bond conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties with
sureties to be approved by the President and Board in a sum not less than three
(3) times the latest Federal population census. (Ord. 2017-09, 7-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-12-2: MONIES RECEIVED:
The Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the Village and shall
render at the end of each and every month, and more often if required, a
statement under oath, to the Board, showing the state of the treasury at the
date of such account, and the balance of the money in the treasury; said
statement shall set forth all the monies received by him, from whom, and on
what account they shall have been received; also all monies paid out by him,
and on what account they shall have been paid. (1965 Code)
1-12-3: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:
The Treasurer shall cause to be kept books of account, in such manner as to
accurately show all monies received by him, from whom, and on what account they
shall have been received; also all monies paid out by him and on what account
they have been paid. Said books shall be kept in such manner as to be readily
understood and investigated; which books and all papers and files of said
office shall at all times be open to the examination of the President and Board
or any member thereof. (1965 Code)
1-12-4: DUTIES:
The Treasurer shall keep by double entry a full detailed account of all Village
funds, general tax receipts and receipts from other sources, also a bond
account, sinking fund account and forfeit account in the Village ledger. He
shall keep a "special fund" ledger in which all special funds shall be kept
separately by numbers and names of the special funds, showing the total amount
of each fund and installment of same to be collected and each amount to show
the total collections and disbursements on account of same.
He shall also keep auxiliary account with the Clerk, the Collector and the
County Collector, showing all monies received and disbursed by the Treasurer.
He shall also keep a commission account, showing the amount of commissions on
any and all special funds at the end of each quarter during the fiscal year.
Each warrant as soon as it is issued by the Clerk and signed by the President
shall be registered by the Treasurer in the warrant account with each fund,
which shall be kept by him, showing under separate headings, the dates and
amounts of payments made on the same and when canceled, and he shall, on
registering each warrant, mark upon the face by stamp or other means the word
"Registered" giving the date, and sign same. The Treasurer shall upon payment
of any voucher or warrant cancel the same, and mark same "Paid by Treasurer"
with the date of such payment. (1965 Code)
1-12-5: COMPENSATION:
The annual compensation of the Treasurer shall be four thousand eight hundred
dollars ($4,800.00). Said salary will be paid in equal monthly installments
upon proper warrants. (Ord. 2005-03, 5-24-2005)
1-12-6: WITHDRAWAL OF FUNDS:
Village funds or money on deposit shall be subject to withdrawal from time to
time upon checks and/or combination voucher checks signed by the Treasurer and
the President of the Village Board. (Ord. 86-36, 12-9-1986; amd. Ord. 2008-04,
2-12-2008)
CHAPTER 13
COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-13-1: Appointed; Duties
1-13-2: Term Of Office
1-13-3: Compensation
1-13-1: APPOINTED 1 ; DUTIES:
   (A)   The President may appoint a Village Collector. The Village Collector
shall have the following duties:
      1.   Collect all water and sewer charges and all charges and all license
fees for any and all licenses issued under the ordinances of the Village,
together with all permits fees and other moneys due the Village, for
collections which are not by law or ordinance provided to be made by some other
officer of the Village.
      2.   Collect all special assessments, special taxes on special
assessments, and special tax warrants which may come into the Village
Collector's hands, and shall collect and turn over such moneys and return such
warrants as provided by law.
      3.   Make return of all special assessments and other warrants and make
report in writing of all delinquent lists of assessments and special taxes to
such officer as may be designated by statute. The return and report shall be
made in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 2018-27, 10-23-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5(a)(2).
1-13-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of Office of the Village Collector shall be for one year. (Ord. 2018-
27, 10-23-2018)
1-13-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Village Collector shall be the sum of two thousand four
hundred dollars ($2,400.00) per annum to be paid out of the General Fund for
the proper appropriation for all of the Village Collector's services. (Ord.
2018-27, 10-23-2018)
CHAPTER 14
HEALTH OFFICER
SECTION:
1-14-1: Duties
1-14-2: Compensation
1-14-3: Police To Assist
1-14-1: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the health officer:
   (A)   To enforce and observe all rules, regulations and orders of the
Illinois Department of Public Health and all state laws pertaining to the
preservation of the health of the people.
   (B)   To execute and enforce all provisions of this code relating to
nuisances, public health and sanitation.
   (C)   To investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious disease
and to report the same promptly to the board and to the department of health of
the state of Illinois and to act without delay in carrying out such measures
for arresting the progress of the same as either or both of said bodies shall
adopt.
   (D)   To make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and
inspections. (1965 Code)
1-14-2: COMPENSATION:
The health officer shall receive as compensation for his services amounts to be
fixed by the board. (1965 Code)
1-14-3: POLICE TO ASSIST:
The village policemen shall assist the health officer in the performance of his
duties when called upon by the health officer or by the president or board of
trustees or any member thereof. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 15
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Definitions
1-15-2: Code Hearing Department
1-15-3: Eviction Rights Of Occupants
1-15-4: Defenses Of Code Violations
1-15-5: Findings, Decisions, Order
1-15-6: Administrative Review
1-15-7: Sanctions Applicable To Owner; Property
1-15-8: Civil Liability For Rentals In Excess Of Number Permitted By Ordinance;
Definitions
1-15-9: Federal Governments Contracts; Maintenance Of Property; Penalties
1-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
BUILDING INSPECTOR/CODE OFFICER: Any full- or part-time Village of Posen
employee whose duties include the inspection or examination of structures or
property in the Village of Posen to determine if code violations exist.
BUILDING/PROPERTY OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of a structure or
property.
CODE: Any Posen ordinance, law, housing or building code that establishes
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or
other health and safety standards that are applicable to structures or property
in a municipality.
HEARING OFFICER: An individual appointed by the Village President and approved
by the Board of Trustees other than a building inspector, code officer or law
enforcement officer, whose duty it is to:
   (A)   Preside at the administrative hearings to decide if a code violation
exists;
   (B)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the building inspector, code
officer or the building owner and all interested parties relevant to the
existence of a code violation;
   (C)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing and
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
   (D)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating whether a
code violation exists. (Ord. 00-01, 3-14-2000)
1-15-2: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT:
   (A)   Code Hearing Department: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-31.1-2 (1992) the Village establishes a Code Hearing Department. The
function of the Hearing Department is to expedite the prosecution and
correction of code violations in the manner set forth in this Chapter. The
Building Inspector or Code Officer as defined in Section
1-15-1 of this Chapter shall not be an employee of the Code Hearing Department.
   (B)   Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive: The Village by adoption of this
Chapter does not preclude itself from using other methods to enforce the
provisions of its codes.
   (C)   Instituting Code Hearing Proceedings:
      1.   When a building inspector or code officer finds a code violation
while inspecting a structure or property, he shall note the violation on a
multiple copy violation notice and report form, indicating the name and address
of the structure or property owner, the type and nature of the violation, the
date and time the violation was observed, the names of witnesses to the
violation, and the address of the structure or property where the violation is
observed.
      2.   The violation and report form shall be forwarded by the building
inspector or code officer to the Code Hearing Department where a docket number
shall be stamped on all copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the
blank spaces provided for that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not
be less than thirty (30) days or more than forty (40) days after the violation
is reported by the building inspector or code officer.
      3.   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the
Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one copy of
the report form shall be returned to the building inspector or code officer so
that he may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the
hearing on the date indicated, and one copy of the report form shall be served
by first class mail on the owner of the structure or property, along with a
summons commanding the owner to appear at the hearing. If the owner is
registered with the Village pursuant to an existing registration ordinance,
service may be made on the owner by mailing the report and summons to the
owner's address registered with the Village. If the owner of the structure or
property cannot be ascertained or if service on the owner cannot be made by
mail, service may be made on the owner by posting a copy of the violation
report and summons on the front door of the structure where the violation is
found, not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled. Service
may also be made by a police officer in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-11 (1992), by the Clerk in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-9-1 (1992), or in any other manner provided by law including
those enumerated in the Code of Civil Procedure 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-101 et seq., (1992).
   (D)   Subpoenas And Defaults: At any time prior to the hearing date the
Hearing Officer assigned to hear the case may at the request of the building
inspector, code officer, or the Attorney for Posen or the owner or his
attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give testimony at
the hearing. If on the date set for hearing the owner or his attorney fail to
appear, the Hearing Officer may find the owner in default and shall proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation.
   (E)   Continuances; Representation At Code Hearings: No continuance shall be
authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings under this Chapter except in
cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
owner. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any
continuance authorized by the Hearing Officer under this Chapter shall not
exceed twenty five (25) days. The case for Posen may be presented by the
building inspector, code officer, or by any other employee of the Village or by
an attorney designated by the Village. However, in no event shall the case for
Posen be presented by an employee of the Code Hearing Department. The case for
the owner may be presented by the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or
representative.
   (F)   Hearing; Evidence: At the hearing, a Hearing Officer shall preside and
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the existence or
nonexistence of a code violation in the structure, or on the property
indicated. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this Chapter. (Ord. 00-01, 3-14-2000)
1-15-3: EVICTION RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS:
   (A)   Eviction; Rights Of Occupants: No action of eviction, abatement of
nuisance, forcible entry or detainer or other similar proceeding shall be
threatened or instituted against the occupant of a dwelling solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a code violation hearing. (Ord. 94-
15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-4: DEFENSES OF CODE VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Defense To Code Violations: It shall be a defense to a code violation
charged under this Chapter if the owner, his attorney or any other agent or
representative proves to the Hearing Officer's satisfaction that:
      1.   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or
at the time of the hearing that the violation has been remedied or removed;
      2.   The code violation has been caused by the current building occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the dwelling
free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations;
      3.   An occupant or residents of the dwelling has refused entry to the
owner of his agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting
the code violation. (Ord. 94-15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-5: FINDINGS, DECISIONS, ORDER:
   (A)   Findings, Decisions, Order: At the conclusion of the hearing the
Hearing Officer shall make a determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing whether or not a code violation exists. The
determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as findings, decision
and order. The findings, decision and order shall include the Hearing Officer's
findings of fact, a decision whether or not the code violation exists based on
the finding of fact, and an order, ordering the owner to correct the violation
or dismissing the case, in the event a violation is not proved. If a code
violation is proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that are provided
in the code for the violations proved. A copy of the findings, decision, and
order shall be served on the owner within five (5) days after they are issued;
service shall be the same manner the report form and summons are served
pursuant to subsection 1-15-2C of this Chapter. Payment of any fine or penalty
imposed shall be made to the Village in care of the office of the Village
Clerk. When collected the fines and penalties shall be paid into the Treasury
of the Village. (Ord. 94-15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
   (A)   Administrative Review: The findings, decision and order of the Hearing
Officer shall be subject to review in the Circuit Court of Cook County and the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, and all amendments and
modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and
shall apply to and govern every action of the judicial review of the findings,
decision and order of a Hearing Officer under this Chapter.
   (B)   Judgment On Finding, Decision, Order:
      1.   Any fine, other sanctions or costs imposed, or part of any fine,
other sanctions or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or
the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative
Review Law shall be a debt due and owing to the Village and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
      2.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
the Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of the
code violation, the Village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of
Cook County for the purposes of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision
and order. The Village may consolidate multiple findings, decisions and orders
against a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action the
Village shall file a certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which
shall be accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show
that the findings, decision and order was issued in accordance with 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., (1992) and this Chapter. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be made by any method provided by
section 2-203 of the Code of Civil Procedure or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, provided that the total amount of the fines, other sanctions
and cost imposed by the findings, decision and order does not exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is satisfied that the
findings, decision and order were entered in accordance with 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., (1992) and this Chapter, and that the
building owner had an opportunity for a hearing under 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., (1992) and this Chapter and for judicial review
as provided in the 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., (1992):
a) the court shall render judgment in favor of the Village and against the
building owner for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and order,
plus costs. Such judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the
same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money; and b) the court may
also issue such other orders and injunctions as are requested by the Village to
enforce the order of the Hearing Officer to correct a code violation. (Ord. 94-
15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-7: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER; PROPERTY:
   (A)   Sanctions Applicable To Owner; Property: The order to correct a code
violation and the sanctions imposed by the Village is a result of a finding of
a code violation under this Chapter shall attach to the property, so that a
finding of a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring to property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner
of property takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a Hearing
Officer under this Chapter. (Ord. 94-15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-8: CIVIL LIABILITY FOR RENTALS IN EXCESS OF NUMBER PERMITTED BY ORDINANCE;
DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Civil Liability For Rentals In Excess Of Number Permitted By
Ordinance; Definitions:
      1.   Liability For Rentals: The owner of a building located in the
Village who directly or indirectly, has collected, or caused to be collected,
rentals from an occupant of that building during a period in which the number
of apartments or family units in that building exceeded the number permitted
for that building by an ordinance of the Village is liable to any such occupant
in an amount equal to not more than three (3) times the amount of any rentals
paid by such occupant, or in his behalf, after January 1, 1970, together with
the court costs and reasonable attorney fees. If the occupant is a recipient of
public aid under article III, IV, or VI of "The Illinois Public Aid Code",
approved April 11, 1967, as amended in whose behalf vendor payment of the
rental was made by the Illinois Department of Public Aid or a local
governmental unit, as the case may be, the liability as herein provided is to
the Illinois Department of Public Aid or the local governmental unit making
vendor payment of the rental.
      2.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section:
      FAMILY UNIT: A room or group of rooms used or intended to be used as a
housekeeping unit of living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. The fact that any
such family unit is used or intended to be used with cooking or eating
accommodations in common with another family unit in any such building does not
affect liability hereunder.
      OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of a building.
      3.   Violation: No liability accrues under this Section until thirty (30)
days after the owner of record of a building has been notified in writing that
such owner is in violation of any such Village ordinance. Such notice shall be
personally served upon such owner of record or sent by registered mail to the
last known address of such owner. (Ord. 94-15, 5-25-1994)
1-15-9: FEDERAL GOVERNMENTS CONTRACTS; MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY; PENALTIES:
   (A)   A person who contracts with the Federal Government or any of its
agencies, including without limitation the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct Village Municipal health
and safety code violations.
A person who intentionally violates this Section shall be fined or sanctioned
in accordance with the provisions of the code that the person has violated.
(Ord. 94-15, 5-25-1994)
CHAPTER 15A
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-15A-1: Purpose
1-15A-2: Creation
1-15A-3: Procedure
1-15A-4: Service
1-15A-5: Hearings
1-15A-6: Notices
1-15A-7: Final Determination
1-15A-8: Judicial Review
1-15A-9: Enforcement Of Judgment
1-15A-10: Fines And Penalties
1-15A-1: PURPOSE:
The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance, through an administrative adjudication of violations of such village
ordinances and establishing a schedule of fines and penalties, and authority
and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-
11-2003)
1-15A-2: CREATION:
   (A)   The code hearing department, an executive department of the village,
is hereby created and established, and article 1, division 2.2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this chapter as if fully set forth herein. The establishment
of the code hearing department does not preclude the president and the board of
trustees from using any other method to enforce ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The code hearing department shall consist of the code hearing officer,
and code enforcement administrator who shall be appointed by the village
president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, and such
assistants and other employees as the board may from time to time provide.
   (C)   The procedures set forth under this chapter shall not be exclusive and
nothing contained in this chapter shall preclude the village from seeking any
other remedy available at law, in equity or by other administrative
proceedings. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-3: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of any village ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder, shall be in accordance with the
following procedures:
   (A)   Persons Authorized Under This Code: Violation notice of any ordinance
violation including nonmoving violations of the village traffic code shall be
issued by the persons authorized under this code and shall contain information
and shall be certified and constitute prima facie evidence of the violation
cited as hereinafter set forth.
      1.   All full time, part time and auxiliary police officers as well as
other specifically authorized individuals of any village department shall have
the authority to issue violation notices.
      2.   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
observes or acquires evidence of an ordinance violation authorized to be
adjudicated under this chapter or a violation of any section of any village
ordinance, is authorized to issue notice of violation thereof and shall make
service thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Notice Of Violation Requirements: The violation notice shall contain,
but shall not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The name of the party violating the ordinance, if known.
      2.   The date, time, and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      3.   The particular ordinance violated.
      4.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
      5.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
      6.   The name of witnesses, if any, to the violation.
      7.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing
notice.
      8.   The date and location of the adjudicating hearing of ordinance
violations other than violations of the village traffic code, the legal
authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held and the
penalties for failure to appear at the hearing. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-4: SERVICE:
   (A)   Person Issuing Notice: Service of any violation notice shall be made
by the person issuing such notice:
      1.   In the case of violation of the village nonmoving traffic code by:
         (a)   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle, unstickered vehicle, or vehicle
violating any compliance regulation;
         (b)   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee
of the vehicle, if present; or
         (c)   Handing the notice to the responsible person or leaving the
notice with any person twelve (12) years of age or older at the residence of
the responsible owner.
      2.   In the case of any ordinance violation other than a violation of the
village nonmoving traffic code by:
         (a)   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation;
         (b)   Handing the notice to the responsible person or leaving the
notice with any person twelve (12) years of age or older at the residence of
the responsible person; or
         (c)   Mailing the notice by certified mail, to the person responsible
for the ordinance violation;
         (d)   Posting the notice upon the property where the violation is
found when the person is the owner or manager of the property.
   (B)   Verification: The correctness of facts contained in any violation
notice shall be verified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the ordinance enforcement administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
         (a)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be
retained by the ordinance enforcement administrator and kept as a record in the
ordinary course of business.
         (b)   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance
herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-5: HEARINGS:
   (A)   Right To Hearing: An administrative hearing to adjudicate any alleged
ordinance violation on its merits, or to contest the validity of a notice of
impending: immobilization, impoundment, or validity of a notice of driver's
license suspension shall be granted to the registered owner or operator of the
"cited vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or the
lessee of the "cited vehicle", 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306,
incorporated herein by reference. The date, time and place shall be set by the
ordinance enforcement administrator and served upon the registered owner,
operator or lessee for hearings contesting the validity of notices of
impending: immobilization, impoundment or driver's license suspension.
   (B)   Hearing Procedures: All administrative hearings shall be recorded and
shall culminate in a determination of liability or nonliability, made by the
hearing officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony without the
application of the formal or technical rules of evidence. Evidence including
hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonable prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. The hearing officer
shall, upon a determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in
accordance with section
1-15A-10 of this chapter. No additional fine or penalty shall accrue as a
result of a person's or legal entity's exercise of their right to a hearing.
Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits may be
represented by counsel at their own expense. The standard of proof shall be a
preponderance of the evidence. The burden of proof shall be on the village. A
prima facie case set forth in the verified notice of violation shall raise a
legal presumption that the necessary elements of the cause of action have been
established. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-6: NOTICES:
   (A)   Failure To Appear: Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a
violation of a village ordinance, other than a village traffic code violation
to appear at the time and date designated for a hearing or in the case of a
violation of the village traffic code, the registered owner, operator or lessee
of the "cited vehicle" to pay the fine, in full as stated on said notice, the
ordinance enforcement administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the person who received the notice of an
ordinance violation; or, in the case of the violation of the village traffic
code, the registered owner or operator of the "cited vehicle" at the address as
is recorded with the secretary of state, and shall be sent to the lessee of the
"cited vehicle" at the address last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle"
at the time of the lease. Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall
be complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (B)   Failure To Pay Fine: The notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
in the following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   To pay the fine in full as stated on the notice, another notice
shall be sent and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Date and location of violation cited in the violation notice.
         (b)   Particular ordinance violated.
         (c)   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
         (d)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         (e)   A section entitled "notice of hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the person receiving a notice of ordinance violation, in the case of
a violation of the village traffic code, or the registered owner, operator or
lessee may appear at an administrative hearing to contest the validity of the
violation notice on the date and at the time and place as specified in the
notice of hearing.
         (f)   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
         (g)   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of liability
for the "cited" violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated.
         (h)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the village.
   (C)   Notice Of Final Determination: A notice of final determination of
liability shall be sent following the conclusion of an administrative hearing,
as is hereinafter set forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information and warnings:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
      2.   A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs are
debts due and owing the village.
      3.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the village within the time specified may result in proceeding with collection
procedures in the same manner as a judgment entered by any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      4.   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5, incorporated
herein by reference.
      5.   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be immobilized and impounded for failure to pay fines or
penalties for five (5) or more vehicular standing or parking regulation
violations.
      6.   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance.
   (D)   Notice Of Impending Suspension: A notice of impending suspension of a
person's driver's license shall be sent to any person determined to be liable
for the payment of any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5)
or more vehicular standing or parking regulation violations:
      1.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result in the
village's notifying the secretary of state that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
306.5, incorporated herein by reference.
      2.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary
of state. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-7: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A determination of liability shall occur following the failure to pay the fine
or penalty after the hearing officer's determination of liability and the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, any administrative review procedures
hereinafter set forth. Where a person fails to appear at the administrative
hearing to contest the alleged violation on the date and at the time and place
specified in a prior served or mailed notice pursuant to section
1-15A-6 of this chapter, the hearing officer's determination of liability shall
become final either upon a denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination or upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition
without a filing having been made. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-8: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
under the Illinois administrative review law. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-9: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois administrative
review law are a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a hearing officer finds that a defendant has
failed to comply with a judgment ordering a defendant to correct a code
violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of a code
violation, any expenses incurred by a municipality to enforce the judgment
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure after they are fixed by the hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (D)   A lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or
both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the municipality
under this section. The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as
a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. No
lien may be enforced under this section until it has been recorded in the
manner provided by article XII of the code of civil procedure or by the uniform
commercial code.
   (E)   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default if the hearing officer determines that the
petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time
if the petitioner establishes that the municipality did not provide proper
service of process. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-11-2003)
1-15A-10: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Ordinance Violation Maximum Fine: For violation of any village
ordinance other than a violation of the village's "traffic code", the fine
shall not exceed the maximum fine which the village can impose for such
violation pursuant to the laws of the state of Illinois.
   (B)   Parking Violation Minimum Fine: For violation of any provision of the
traffic code of the village or any other village ordinance, which regulates,
restricts or prohibits the standing or parking of motor vehicles along the
streets, byways, alleyways, regulated parking lots or such other locations as
may be controlled by off street parking agreements, located within the
geographical boundaries of the village, the fine shall be as provided in this
code no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) for any one violation.
   (C)   Ordinance Violation Minimum Fine: Except where explicitly stated
otherwise in this code, the minimum fine for all village ordinance violations
as provided in this code shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for any one
violation. (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)
CHAPTER 16
EMPLOYEE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
SECTION:
1-16-1: Policy and Purpose
1-16-2: Agreement Authorized
1-16-3: Withholdings
1-16-4: Payments of Contributions and Expenses
1-16-5: Records Kept
1-16-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the Village to extend to
the eligible employees thereof, effective as of March 31, 1970, the benefits of
the Federal Old Age and Survivors' Insurance System as authorized by the
Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. Elected Village Trustees
are hereby excluded. In pursuance of said policy and for that purpose the
Village President shall take such action as may be required by applicable State
and Federal Laws or Regulations. (Ord. 77-11, 6-14-77)
1-16-2: AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED:
The Village President is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement
with the State Employees' Retirement System of the State to secure coverage of
eligible employees as provided in Section
1-16-1 hereof.
1-16-3: WITHHOLDINGS:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose provided in
Section
1-16-1 hereof, are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such
times as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or regulations,
and shall be paid over to the State Agency in such amounts and at such times as
are designated by State laws or regulations.
1-16-4: PAYMENTS OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENSES:
Employer contributions and administrative expenses shall be paid to the State
Agency in accordance with applicable State laws and regulations from amounts
appropriated for such purposes.
1-16-5: RECORDS KEPT:
The Village Treasurer shall maintain such records and submit such reports as
may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 70-
11; 3-24-70)
CHAPTER 17
ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND
SECTION:
1-17-1: Participation In Fund
1-17-2: Standard For Participation
1-17-3: Filing
1-17-1: PARTICIPATION IN FUND:
The village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois, does hereby elect to participate
in the Illinois municipal retirement fund. (Ord. 2006-09, 9-12-2006)
1-17-2: STANDARD FOR PARTICIPATION:
The standard for IMRF participation is a position normally requiring
performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year. (Ord. 2006-09, 9-
12-2006)
1-17-3: FILING:
The village clerk is directed to promptly file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein with the board of trustees of the Illinois municipal
retirement fund. (Ord. 2006-09, 9-12-2006)
CHAPTER 18
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-18-1: Introduction
1-18-2: Definitions
1-18-3: Authority For Testing
1-18-4: Warning Prior To Testing
1-18-5: Conditions For Testing
1-18-6: Prior Notice Of Testing Policy
1-18-7: Consent
1-18-8: Refusal To Consent
1-18-9: Confirmation Of Test Results
1-18-10: Consequences Of A Confirmed Positive Test Result
1-18-11: The Right To A Hearing
1-18-12: Confidentiality Of Test Results
1-18-13: Privacy In Drug Testing
1-18-14: Laboratory Testing Requirements
1-18-1: INTRODUCTION:
The goal and intent of drug testing is to rehabilitate and assist first-time
offenders with and/or alcohol problems. Disciplinary actions, up to and
including termination of the employee, is possible. However, any action taken
against an employee shall be determined by the individual circumstances of each
case. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given them:
REASONABLE SUSPICION: An articulate belief based on specific objective facts
and reasonable references drawn down from those facts.
UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Having the presence of a drug or alcohol at or above the
level of a positive test result as defined in the Illinois Compiled Statues, as
amended from time to time. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-3: AUTHORITY FOR TESTING:
Only one person in charge or his/her designee, of a department, may order an
employee to submit to a urine, blood test, or breathalyzer test. Such order
shall be in writing. Chief of Police is the designated officer in charge of the
drug and alcohol testing program for the Village. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-4: WARNING PRIOR TO TESTING:
Before an employee submits to a urine test, blood test or breathalyzer test,
which may form the basis for the filing of charges against the employee, the
employee must be advised in writing of the following:
   (A)   The facts underlying the determination of reasonable suspicion of drug
and/or alcohol use by the employee.
   (B)   That evidence obtained in the course of testimony may be used as the
basis for charges seeking disciplinary action, including termination.
   (C)   That the employee is entitled to a complete record of any testing,
which will be made available to the employee free of charge and without undue
delay.
   (D)   That the employee has the right to have counsel of his/her own
choosing present to advise him/her during the course of such testing. Any
employee ordered to submit to drug testing shall have one hour in which to
contact counsel and secure counsel's presence. If counsel does not appear
within one hour, testing will proceed as scheduled. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-5: CONDITIONS FOR TESTING:
The Village may require an employee to undergo drug and alcohol testing if
there is reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the influence of drugs
and alcohol during work hours. Circumstances which constitute a basis for
determining reasonable suspicion may include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   A pattern of abnormal or erratic behavior;
   (B)   Information provided by a reliable and credible source as determined
by the Village, the identity and nature of this source will be revealed to the
employee at the time of the testing order;
   (C)   Direct observation of drug or alcohol use;
   (D)   Presence of two (2) or more physical manifestations of drug or alcohol
use (i.e., glassy or bloodshot eyes, alcohol odor on breath, slurred speech,
poor coordination and/or reflexes);
   (E)   A demonstrable good faith belief by management, based upon an
objective and reasonable basis, that the employee is impaired in the
performance of his/her duties, due to drug or alcohol use; or
   (F)   The person in charge of a department, or his/her designee is required
to detail in writing the specific facts, symptoms and observations which formed
the basis for his/her determination that reasonable suspicion existed to
warrant the testing of an employee, unless such testing is the result of an
employee accident where drug or alcohol use is suspected and, therefore, must
be performed immediately. This documentation shall be forwarded to the officer
in charge of drug and alcohol testing. The facts underlying the determination
of reasonable suspicion should be disclosed either verbally or in written form
to the employee at the time the demand is made. If given verbally, such facts
shall be reduced to writing and given to the employee within twenty four (24)
hours of the time the employee demands them. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-6: PRIOR NOTICE OF TESTING POLICY:
The Village shall provide written notice of its drug and alcohol testing policy
to all employees. Upon receipt of said policy, employees shall sign a receipt
and consent form acknowledging that they have been notified of the Village's
drug testing policy. The notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The need for drug and alcohol testing;
   (B)   The circumstances under which testing may be required;
   (C)   The procedure for confirming an initial positive drug test result;
   (D)   The consequences of a confirmed positive test result;
   (E)   The right to explain a positive test result and the appeal procedures
available; and
   (F)   The availability of drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral
services. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-7: CONSENT:
Before a drug and alcohol test is administered, the employee will be asked to
sign a consent form authorizing the test and permitting release of test results
to those Village officials who need to know. Employees may, at that time,
provide a list of those medications that he or she has recently used. The list
of medications, if provided, shall be sealed and held as confidential until
there has been a positive test result. In the event of a confirmed positive
test result, the list of medications shall only be disclosed to the medical
official who will determine whether the positive result was due to the lawful
use of any of the listed medications. Employees may choose to provide such a
list after being notified of a confirmed positive result.
The consent form will also set forth the following information:
   (A)   The procedure for confirming an initial test result;
   (B)   The consequences of a confirmed positive test result; and
   (C)   The right to explain a confirmed positive test result and the appeal
procedure available. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-8: REFUSAL TO CONSENT:
An employee who refuses to consent to a drug and alcohol test when reasonable
suspicion of drug and alcohol use has been identified will be subjected to
disciplinary action up to and including termination. An employee, upon written
request to the officer in charge of the drug and alcohol testing program or
his/her designee within three (3) days of his or her refusal, shall be entitled
to a hearing prior to the Village's decision that such refusal warrants
disciplinary action. The reason(s) for the refusal shall be considered in
determining the appropriate disciplinary action. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-9: CONFIRMATION OF TEST RESULTS:
An employee whose drug test yields a positive result shall be given a second
test using a gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) test or an equivalent
scientific means that provides quantitative data about the detected drug
metabolites. The second test shall use a portion of the same test sample
withdrawn from the employee for use in the first test.
If the second test confirms the positive test result, the employee shall be
notified of the results in writing by the officer in charge of the drug and
alcohol testing program or his/her designee. The letter of notification shall
identify the particular substance found and its concentration level.
An employee whose second test confirms the original positive test result may,
at the employee's own expense, have a third test conducted using the same
sample at a laboratory by the Village. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-10: CONSEQUENCES OF A CONFIRMED POSITIVE TEST RESULT:
If an employee's positive test result has been confirmed, the employee is
subject to disciplinary action. Factors to be considered in determining the
appropriate disciplinary response include the employee's work history, length
of employment, current job performance, and the existence of past disciplinary
actions. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-11: THE RIGHT TO A HEARING:
The employee shall have a right to contest the basis for the order to submit to
the tests, the right to test, the administration of the tests, the significance
and accuracy of the tests, the consequences of the testing or results or any
other violation of the Article. Employees shall retain any such legal remedies
as may exist and may pursue the same in their own discretion. (Ord. 95-21, 12-
13-1995)
1-18-12: CONFIDENTIALITY OF TEST RESULTS:
All information from an employee's drug and alcohol test is confidential and
only those with a need to know will be informed of test results. Disclosure of
test results to any other person, agency, or organization is prohibited unless
written authorization is obtained from the employee. The results of a positive
drug test shall not be released until the results are confirmed. The records of
unconfirmed positive test results and negative test results shall be destroyed
by the testing laboratory. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-13: PRIVACY IN DRUG TESTING:
Urine samples shall be provided in a private restroom stall or similar
enclosure so that employees may not be viewed while providing the sample.
Employees will be given hospital gowns to wear while they are providing test
samples in order to ensure that there is no tampering. Street clothes, bags,
briefcases, purses, and other containers may not be carried into the test area.
The water in the commode shall be colored with blue dye to protect against
dilution of test samples. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-1995)
1-18-14: LABORATORY TESTING REQUIREMENTS:
All drug and alcohol testing of employees shall be conducted at medical
facilities or laboratories selected by the Village. To be considered as a
testing site, a medical facility or lab must submit in writing a description of
the procedures that will be used to maintain test samples. The Village shall
not select a test facility that does not employ:
   (A)   Testing procedures that ensure privacy to employees consistent with
the prevention of tampering;
   (B)   Methods of analysis that ensure reliable test results, including the
use of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry to confirm positive test results;
   (C)   Chain-of-custody procedures that ensure proper identification,
labeling and handling of test samples; and
   (D)   Retention and storage procedures to ensure reliable results on
confirmatory tests of original samples.
The Village shall inform the employee of the name and qualifications of the
testing laboratory or facilities selected, including a copy of the written
description of the procedures submitted by the facility. (Ord. 95-21, 12-13-
1995)
CHAPTER 19
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-19-1: Policy
1-19-2: Scope
1-19-3: Prudence
1-19-4: Objectives
1-19-5: Delegation Of Authority
1-19-6: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
1-19-7: Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions
1-19-8: Authorized And Suitable Investments
1-19-9: Collateralization
1-19-10: Safekeeping And Custody
1-19-11: Diversification
1-19-12: Maximum Maturities
1-19-13: Limitations
1-19-14: Internal Control
1-19-15: Performance Standards
1-19-16: Reporting
1-19-17: Statement Of Market Value
1-19-18: Authorization
1-19-19: Adoption
1-19-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the Village of Posen, Illinois (the "Village") to invest
public funds in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with
the maximum security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity
and conforming to all State and local statutes. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-2: SCOPE:
This policy includes all funds governed by the Village and applies to all
officers, employees or their designees. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-3: PRUDENCE:
Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then
prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the probable
income to be derived.
The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials, shall be the
"prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing an
overall portfolio. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-4: OBJECTIVES:
The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
   (A)   Legality: Conformance with Federal, State and other legal
requirements.
   (B)   Safety: Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
   (C)   Liquidity: Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements and cash flow needs.
   (D)   Diversification: Minimization of risk by allocating portfolio among
different investments.
   (E)   Yield: Attainment of market rates of return.
The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness in
meeting the Village's needs for safety, liquidity, yield, diversification, and
its overall performance. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-5: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the delegation of the Board of
Trustees (the "Board"), shall establish written procedures for the operation of
the investment program. The procedures should be available to Board members for
their review and comment. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-6: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions. Failure to comply with this provision may result in
immediate termination of the officer or employee. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-7: AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS:
The treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness. (Ord. 99-22,
12-28-1999; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 2-12-2008)
1-19-8: AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS:
Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in Illinois
statutes regarding the investment of public funds. The village is not
authorized to invest in any form of derivative security.
Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type
being invested and reflecting all other provisions of this policy. (Ord. 99-22,
12-28-1999)
1-19-9: COLLATERALIZATION:
Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, etc.) in excess
of FDIC limits must be secured with appropriate collateral, witnessed by a
written agreement and held at an independent third party institution in the
name of the municipality. Collateral shall be limited to securities of the
United States of America or its agencies such as the Federal National Mortgage
Association. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-10: SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY:
All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery versus payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third party custodian
designated by the treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-11: DIVERSIFICATION:
The entity shall diversify its investments based on the type of funds invested
and the cash flow needs of those funds. Diversification can be by type of
investment, number of institutions invested in, and length of maturity. (Ord.
99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-12: MAXIMUM MATURITIES:
To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its investments with
anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow, the
village will not directly invest in securities maturing more than one year from
the date of purchase.
Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding two (2) years if the
maturity of such investments is made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-13: LIMITATIONS:
The village may not invest more than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or
fifty percent (50%) of its portfolio (whichever amount is less) in any one
security or in any one financial institution. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-14: INTERNAL CONTROL:
The treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal
control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the village are
protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met. The
internal controls shall address the following points:
Control of collusion.
Separation of transaction authority from accounting.
Custodial safekeeping.
Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and wire
transfers. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-15: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with all parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity
and credit quality as the portfolio. One such benchmark is the ninety (90) day
T-bill note. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-16: REPORTING:
The treasurer shall prepare a monthly investment report. The report shall be
provided to the board and available to the general public on request. The
report should be in format suitable for review by the general public. An annual
report should also be provided in the portfolio. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-17: STATEMENT OF MARKET VALUE:
A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the board
quarterly. The statement should also identify the cost of each individual
security held in the portfolio. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-18: AUTHORIZATION:
The treasurer is authorized to invest up to two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
at any time, or in any one investment, subject to all other provisions of this
policy. Any investment in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) must
receive approval by the board before the transaction can be executed by the
treasurer or his designee. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
1-19-19: ADOPTION:
The investment policy shall be adopted by the board. The policy shall be
reviewed on an annual basis by the treasurer, and any modifications made
thereto must be approved by the board. (Ord. 99-22, 12-28-1999)
CHAPTER 20
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-20-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-20-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-20-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-20-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-20-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-20-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-20-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Posen to prohibit harassment of
any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 2017-25, 12-12-2017, eff. 12-12-
2017)
1-20-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
   (A)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
   (B)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as
the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
   (C)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
   (A)   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive, comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
   (B)   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
   (C)   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature, viewing
pornographic material or websites.
   (D)   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
   (E)   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 2017-25, 12-12-2017, eff. 12-12-2017)
1-20-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a Department Head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this chapter is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 2017-
25, 12-12-2017, eff. 12-12-2017)
1-20-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   (A)   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
Municipal employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
chapter,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this chapter, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 3 .
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or
three hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 2017-25, 12-
12-2017, eff. 12-12-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-20-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this chapter or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 2017-25, 12-12-2017, eff. 12-
12-2017)
1-20-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2017-25, 12-12-2017,
eff. 12-12-2017)
TITLE II
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation And Membership
2-1-2: Meetings; Records; Annual Report
2-1-3: Duties
2-1-3A: Application And Notification
2-1-3B: Public Hearing
2-1-3C: Written Protests To Amendments
2-1-4: Appeals To The Commission
2-1-5: Power Of Village Board To Prohibit Variations By Commission
2-1-6: Vote Required In Action By Commission
2-1-7: Minor Appeals And Variations
2-1-8: Procedure In Rendering Orders; Effect And Appeals Therefrom
2-1-9: Limitation On Power
2-1-10: Compensation
2-1-11: Additional Fees
2-1-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby established a zoning, planning, and development commission.
Said commission shall replace the board of appeals and any reference in this
code or the village of Posen zoning ordinance of 1965, as amended, to those
three (3) bodies shall now refer to the zoning, planning and development
commission. The zoning, planning and development commission will be referred to
as the "plan commission".
All terms of all commissioners of the plan commission holding office, whose
terms have not already expired, shall expire on April 30, 1988. All
commissioners holding office, whose terms have expired, shall cease to be
commissioners effective the same date. Effective May 1, 1988, a new board shall
be appointed. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
The plan commission shall consist of five (5) commissioners, all of whom shall
be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
The terms of the five (5) commissioners appointed shall be as follows: two (2)
expiring in one year, two (2) expiring in two (2) years and one expiring in
three (3) years. Thereafter, all terms shall be for a period of three (3) years
or June 1, 2008, whichever comes first. The term of each commissioner of the
zoning, planning and development commission holding office on June 1, 2008,
shall expire on the later of April 30, 2009, or until such commissioner's
successor is duly appointed and has qualified. Thereafter, the term of each
commissioner of the zoning, planning and development commission shall be for a
one year period ending on April 30 of each year or until such commissioner's
successor is duly appointed and has qualified. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988; amd.
Ord. 2008-07, 5-27-2008)
The mayor shall appoint a commissioner to serve as chairman for a term not to
exceed the time said mayor remains in office. The chairman shall attend the
village board meetings as needed. The village board may remove any commissioner
for cause after a public hearing before them. All vacancies to the commission
shall be filled for the unexpired term of the commissioner whose office is
vacated. All commissioners shall serve until their successors have been
appointed and qualified.
The plan commission may adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with
this code or the state statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it
deems necessary.
The village board may provide general or specific rules implementing, but not
inconsistent with, the rules herein provided to govern the plan commission.
(Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-2: MEETINGS; RECORDS; ANNUAL REPORT:
All meetings of the plan commission shall be open to the public. The members of
the plan commission shall meet at Posen village hall at such dates and times as
they may deem necessary; but, the plan commission shall conduct a regular
annual meeting on the third Thursday in June of each year at seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. Notice of all meetings shall be posted at the Posen village hall in
such manner as required by law. In addition to such other reports and
recommendations which may be required by this chapter, the plan commission
shall also file an annual report with the village board no later than the
fourth Tuesday in July of each year, setting forth its transactions and
recommendations. (Ord. 92-10, 7-28-1992)
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that
fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official acts.
The chairman shall conduct the meeting and may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. Every rule, regulation, amendment, order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the commission shall be filed in the office of
the commission and shall be a public record. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-3: DUTIES:
The plan commission is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction, duties,
and authority:
   (A)   To investigate and make recommendations to the village board
concerning the subject matter of amendments, variations, or additions to the
zoning ordinance, upon its own motion or at the request of the village board or
upon petitions filed by one or more owners of property.
   (B)   To hear all applications for rezoning requests, special uses, and
variations in use and to report findings and recommendations to the village
board.
   (C)   To hear and pass upon applications for planned developments and to
report findings and recommendations to the village board.
   (D)   To initiate, direct, and review from time to time studies of one or
more provisions of the zoning ordinance and make reports of such review and
recommendations to the village board.
   (E)   To adhere to the current master plan and to recommend only such
changes and variations as are clearly necessary, together with specific reasons
for the recommendations.
   (F)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter and other ordinances of the village and/or
state statute.
   (G)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, decision, or
determination made by an administrative officer charged with the enforcement of
the zoning ordinance.
   (H)   To hear all applications for subdivisions or subdivision variations
under the subdivision code.
   (I)   To act in all zoning matters as the village zoning committee, subject
to the right of the village board by motion to refer a matter to a special
zoning committee.
   (J)   To develop long-range planning for land use and businesses within the
village.
   (K)   To update and amend the village's master plan and comprehensive plan.
   (L)   To perform all the duties and have all the powers of a plan commission
under the Illinois statutes.
   (M)   To give aid to the village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the comprehensive plan, to further
the making of those projects, and to promote the realization of the official
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-3A: APPLICATION AND NOTIFICATION:
Any person or firm wishing to file an application pursuant to the village
zoning code, which seeks by its provisions, an amendment, variation, special
use, or proceeding involving the annexation of land, and which requires a
public hearing by the plan commission concerning it, shall hereafter, as a
condition precedent to filing such application, comply with the following
provisions:
   (A)   Notice: The applicant shall, not more than thirty (30) days, nor less
than fifteen (15) days before filing an application with the village clerk's
office, serve written notice in person or by registered mail, return receipt
requested, on the owners of record, as recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds, or the county registrar of titles, and as appears from the
authentic tax records of the county, of all property immediately contiguous to
the boundary of said property for which the application is requested, provided
that all public streets, roads, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded
in calculating the contiguous property requirements.
   (B)   Content: The notices required shall contain the following:
      1.   The legal description and common street address of the property for
which the application is requested, including the permanent index number.
      2.   A statement of the nature of the application request, and an
approximate date on which the applicant intends to file the application with
the village clerk's office.
      3.   The name and address of the legal or equitable owner of the property
for which the application is requested.
   (C)   Efforts To Contact Owners: If, after a bona fide effort to determine
such address by the applicant, the owner of the property on which the notice is
served cannot be found at the last known address or the mailed notice is
returned because the owner cannot be found at the last known address, the
notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied.
   (D)   Listing Of Property Owners: In addition to serving the notice required
in this section, at the time of filing an application, the applicant shall
furnish to the village clerk's office a complete list containing the names,
permanent index numbers and last known addresses of the owners required to be
served, the method of service, and the names and addresses of the owners so
served.
   (E)   Certification Of Compliance With Requirements: The applicant shall
also furnish a written statement certifying that he or she has complied with
the requirements of this section. The village clerk shall not process any
application unless the applicant furnishes the list and certificate required in
this section.
   (F)   Fees; Reimbursement Of Village:
1. For a special use or amendment other than a rezoning amendment  $200.00
2. For a variation                                                 100.00
3. For an appeal                                                   100.00
4. For a rezoning amendment
    (a) 1 lot                                                      100.00
    (b) 2 to 5 lots                                                150.00
    (c) 6 to 9 lots                                                250.00
    (d) 10 to 19 lots                                              400.00
    (e) 20 lots and over                                           500.00
 
If the land is to be divided into a certain number of lots, then the fee for a
rezoning amendment would be based on the number of lots proposed. (Ord. 2001-
18, 10-9-2001)
2-1-3B: PUBLIC HEARING:
Prior to any public hearing, except an administrative appeal, notice shall be
given by publishing the same in a newspaper published in the village, or if
none, one of general circulation in the village, not less than fifteen (15)
days nor more than thirty (30) days preceding the hearing date. (Ord. 2001-18,
10-9-2001)
2-1-3C: WRITTEN PROTESTS TO AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a written protest against such proposed amendment or change, signed by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or
by owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining in the
same block, or in the block back of or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage
proposed to be altered, shall have been filed with the plan commission or the
village board within ten (10) days after the public hearing, the ordinance
providing for such proposed amendment or change shall not be passed except by
the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the village board.
(Ord. 2001-18, 10-9-2001)
2-1-4: APPEALS TO THE COMMISSION:
An appeal to the plan commission may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, or board of the village. The appeal shall be taken within
such time as shall be prescribed by the plan commission by a general rule, by
filing, with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the plan
commission, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The officer
from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the commission all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the plan
commission, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In this event, the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the plan
commission or by a court record on application and on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
The plan commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal
and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the appeal within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by his
attorney. The plan commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination with such changes as
in its opinion ought to be made in the premises, and to that end has all the
powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
A filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the village
clerk at the time notice of appeal is filed. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-5: POWER OF VILLAGE BOARD TO PROHIBIT VARIATIONS BY COMMISSION:
The village board shall have the power to prohibit, in whole or in part, the
granting of variations in respect to the classification, regulation, and
restriction of the location of uses, trades and industries; the location of
buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential and other
uses; and all other variations under the ordinances of the village, including
the zoning ordinance, the subdivision ordinance, or the building code. (Ord.
88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-6: VOTE REQUIRED IN ACTION BY COMMISSION:
The concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the commissioners present is
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative officer charged with the enforcement of the zoning ordinance, or
to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-7: MINOR APPEALS AND VARIATIONS:
Appeals from the regulations of the zoning ordinance may be granted by the
commission in the way of variations as to the following:
   (A)   To permit any yard less than the yard required by the applicable
regulations; to permit any setback less than the setback required by the
applicable regulations, subject to the provisions of the zoning ordinance, but
not more than twenty percent (20%).
   (B)   To permit any building or structure to exceed by not more than twenty
percent (20%) the height limitations imposed by the applicable regulations.
   (C)   To permit the use of a lot or lots for a use otherwise prohibited
solely because of the insufficient area or width of the lot or lots, but in no
event shall the respective area and width of the lot or lots be less than
ninety percent (90%) of the required area and width.
   (D)   To increase by not more than twenty five percent (25%) the maximum
distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be located from the use
served.
   (E)   To permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as required
facilities for two (2) or more uses, provided the substantial use of such
facility by each user does not take place at approximately the same hours of
the same days of the week.
   (F)   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than one parking space or loading space or ten percent
(10%), whichever number is greater.
   (G)   To increase by not more than ten percent (10%) the maximum gross floor
area of any use so limited by the applicable regulations.
   (H)   To increase by not more than twenty percent (20%) the gross area of
any sign, subject to provisions of the sign ordinance of the village. (Ord. 88-
04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-8: PROCEDURE IN RENDERING ORDERS; EFFECT AND APPEALS THEREFROM:
No order of the commission shall be valid until thirty (30) days after the date
of said order, nor for a period longer than one year from the date of said
order. If a building is to be erected or altered, or its use changed or varied,
there shall be sufficient compliance with this paragraph if a building permit
is obtained and the erection or alteration is started within one year from the
date of said order, or the change and variation of the use is commenced within
one year from the date of said order.
Every decision or recommendation made by the plan commission shall be
accompanied by finding of fact specifying the reason or reasons for making the
finding, decision or recommendation. Variations granted shall be by resolution.
Denials shall be by written order.
Copies of all orders, decisions, recommendations or resolutions shall be sent
to the building commissioner, village attorney, public works director, village
clerk and all members of the village board.
The village or any person aggrieved by any decision of the plan commission may
appeal the decision to the village board within thirty (30) days of the date of
said decision. Said appeal shall be commenced by giving written notice to the
village clerk, requesting an appeal of this matter before the village board.
The village board shall act upon the appeal within sixty (60) days after the
notice is given; provided, however, that a failure to act within said sixty
(60) days shall be a denial of said appeal. An appeal stays execution of the
plan commission decision. A denial of a variation by the plan commission shall
not be overruled except by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the village board
then holding office. No reconsideration of any decision of the village board
shall take place later than the second regular meeting following the council's
decision on the appeal.
Prior to any hearing, except an administrative appeal, notice shall be given by
publishing the same in a newspaper published in the village, or if none, one of
general circulation in the village, not less than fifteen (15) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the hearing date, except that where the petitioner
seeks relief by ways of variation of less than five percent (5%) of the
requirements of the zoning ordinance, in those cases, in lieu of a published
notice and other notices provided herein, the petitioner may notify, as
hereinafter set forth, all the taxpayers whose property fronts both sides of
the street of the property sought to be carried, and an affidavit to that
effect in substance with the form hereinafter required shall be filed. In
addition, the applicant or attorney on his behalf shall file an affidavit
stating the name, address, and permanent index number of each property owner
adjoining, across the alley or directly across the street and three hundred
feet (300') from the boundary of said parcel, and that the notice of the
proposed hearing was served upon each of the persons who paid the taxes on each
lot or parcel during the last calendar year in which taxes were paid, at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Notice shall also be sent to the
village trustees, the building commissioner, and the public works director. All
notices shall contain:
   (A)   The legal description;
   (B)   The relief requested;
   (C)   The common street address;
   (D)   The permanent index number;
   (E)   The approximate size of the parcel;
   (F)   The date and time of hearing;
   (G)   The place to be held;
   (H)   The name of the chairman of the commission;
   (I)   The name of the owner of the property;
   (J)   The name of the petitioner;
   (K)   The name of the person, address, and telephone number of the village
employee where information can be secured from the commission's files.
Hearings on subdivisions shall be according to the procedural requirements of
the subdivision ordinance, except where variations are requested, in which case
the procedural requirements of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-
1988)
2-1-9: LIMITATION ON POWER:
Nothing herein shall be construed to give or grant the commission the power or
authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance or the zoning map, or to
grant a variation in excess of the limitations as set forth, such power and
authority being reserved to the village board by ordinance, after hearing
before and recommendation by the commission. The powers of the commission are
limited to those granted herein. (Ord. 88-04, 2-23-1988)
2-1-10: COMPENSATION:
Members of the plan commission shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
meeting they attend where a quorum of the plan commission is present and
substantive business is transacted; provided, that no member of the plan
commission shall be compensated for his or her attendance at more than two (2)
meetings per calendar month. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-23-2007)
2-1-11: ADDITIONAL FEES:
An additional fee of two-hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) will be required
to be paid to the Clerk's Office prior to scheduling a second, third, etc.
hearing with the Planning and Zoning Board, when any alterations to plans are
brought back for review, or any applicant that request to be heard again for
the same property. (Ord. 2020-22, 8-11-2020)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Functions
2-2-3: Violation
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established a Commission which shall be known as the Electrical
Commission of the Village, and which shall consist of five (5) members. The
Electrical Inspector, who shall be known as the Chief Electrical Inspector,
shall be a member and the ex officio chairman of said Commission. Of the other
four (4) members, one shall be an electrical contractor, one a journeyman
electrician, one a representative of an inspection bureau maintained by the
fire underwriters, if such a representative resides in the Municipality, and if
no such representative resides in the Municipality, then the Chief of the Fire
Department, and one a representative of an electrical supply company. If there
is no person in the Municipality who is qualified under any one of these
descriptions, then the President of the Municipality may appoint such other
person to fill that position. All members of the Electrical Commission are to
be appointed by the President of the Municipality with the advice and consent
of the Trustees. The Chief Electrical Inspector shall serve on said Commission
without additional compensation therefor. The other members shall receive such
compensation as may be fixed by the Board.
2-2-2: FUNCTIONS:
It shall be the duty of said Commission to formulate and recommend safe and
practical standards and specifications for the installation, alteration and use
of electrical equipment designed to meet the necessities and conditions that
prevail in the Village, to recommend reasonable rules and regulations governing
the issuance of permits by the Electrical Inspection Department, and to
recommend reasonable fees to be paid for inspections made by said Department.
The standards and specifications, rules and regulations governing the issuance
of permits and fees so recommended, shall become effective upon the passage of
an ordinance adopting the same by the Board. All such fees shall be paid to the
Treasurer.
2-2-3: VIOLATION:
Any person that shall install or alter any electrical equipment after the
approval of the standards and specifications, and the fees prescribed therefor,
except such as is exempt from the provisions of this Chapter, by the terms of
Section 37-1 of the Revised Cities and Villages Act of the Illinois Revised
Statutes 1963, without first having secured a permit, as provided for, or any
person that shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with the rules, standards
or specifications established by the Electrical Commission, which have been
provided by the Village Board, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment
2-3-2: Purpose
2-3-3: Functions
2-3-4: Coordinator
2-3-5: Location Of Office
2-3-6: Oath
2-3-7: Emergency
2-3-8: Ability To Negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements
2-3-9: Authority To Contract And Purchase In Event Of Disaster
2-3-10: Mobile Support Team
2-3-11: Reimbursement By State For Expenses Of EMA Members Under Certain
Conditions
2-3-12: Compensation Of Members Called For Training
2-3-13: Appropriation/Levy Of Taxes
2-3-14: Acceptance Of Gifts
2-3-15: Utilization Of Existing Agency, Facility And Personnel
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
Pursuant to the authority granted by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Act, there is hereby created an Emergency Management Agency ("EMA") for the
Village. The EMA shall subsume and perform all of the duties of the previously
designated Emergency Services and Disaster Agency ("ESDA") of the Village.
(Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the EMA is to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or
damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, other hostile
action or natural causes or man-made disasters. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-3: FUNCTIONS:
The EMA shall perform such EMA functions within the Village as shall be
prescribed in and by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA) plan and
program prepared by the IEMA and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the IEMA and Village ordinances. In addition, the EMA shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits of the Village as may be
required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or taxing district entered into as provided by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-4: COORDINATOR:
A Coordinator of EMA shall be appointed by the Village President, and shall
serve for a period of one year, commencing May first of each year, or until a
successor shall be appointed or until he is relieved of his duties by the
Village President. In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability
of the Coordinator to serve, the Village President or any person designated by
him shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided
in this section. The Coordinator of the EMA shall have the direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training and operation of
the EMA, subject to the direction and control of the Village President as
provided by statute. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-5: LOCATION OF OFFICE:
The office space to be occupied by the EMA shall be designated by the Village
President in the Village Hall or elsewhere in facilities under the jurisdiction
of the Village. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-6: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the EMA shall before
entering upon his/her duties, subscribe to an oath which shall be filed with
the Coordinator of the EMA. Such oath shall be in substantially the following
form:
I                     , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter.
And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate nor am I, nor have I
ever been, a member of a political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence, and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Village of
Posen EMA, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-7: EMERGENCY:
If the Governor declares that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or in the event of a major disaster
within the State resulting from enemy sabotage, other hostile action or from
natural causes, it shall be the duty of the EMA to cooperate fully with
Municipal officials, with the State IEMA and with the Governor in the exercise
of emergency powers, as provided by law. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-8: ABILITY TO NEGOTIATE MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The Coordinator of the EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
municipal corporations, political subdivisions, and taxing districts, but no
such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the corporate
authorities of each of the participating municipalities, political subdivisions
or taxing districts. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-9: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT AND PURCHASE IN EVENT OF DISASTER:
In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the Coordinator is authorized
on behalf of the Village, subject to the approval of the Village President, to
procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
the purposes stated in this section in view of the exigency, without regard to
the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining
to Municipal contracts or to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to Municipal contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act. However, if the
Village Board meets at the time of such disaster, the Coordinator's action
shall be subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by the Village
Board.
The Village President or, in his absence, the President Pro- Tempore, may on
recommendation of the Coordinator of the EMA, authorize any purchase or
contract necessary to place the Village in a position to effectively combat any
disaster, to protect the public health and safety, to protect property and to
provide emergency assistance to victims, whether such disaster results from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile or from any natural cause or
man-made disasters. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-10: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All members of the EMA may be designated as members of a mobile support team
created by the State Director of IEMA. The leader of such mobile support team
shall be designated by the Coordinator of the EMA. Any member of a mobile
support team who is a Municipal employee or officer while serving on call to
duty by the Governor or the Director of IEMA and shall receive the compensation
and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employee or
office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
Municipality while so serving shall receive from the State such reasonable
compensation as is or may be provided by law. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-11: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE FOR EXPENSES OF EMA MEMBERS UNDER CERTAIN
CONDITIONS:
The Village Treasurer, or any person fulfilling his duties, may receive and
allocate to the appropriate funds any reimbursement by the State to the Village
for expenses incident to training members of the EMA or for compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
of the Village in response to a call by the Governor or Director of IEMA, as
provided by law, and any reimbursement made by the State incident to EMA
activities, as provided by law. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-12: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS CALLED FOR TRAINING:
The members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the Village, if
called for training by the Director of IEMA, shall receive for time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held in the
Village. Members of the EMA who are not such Municipal employees or officers
shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be established by
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-13: APPROPRIATION/LEVY OF TAXES:
The Village Board may make appropriations for emergency services and disaster
operations in the manner provided by law for making appropriations for the
ordinary expenses of EMA. The Board of Trustees may also levy for emergency
services and disaster operations a tax not to exceed 0.05 percent of the full,
fair cash value as equalized or assessed on all taxable property in the Village
for the current year. However, the amount collectible under such a levy shall
in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. The annual tax shall
be in addition to and in excess of the amount authorized to be levied for
general corporate purposes. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-14: ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS:
Whenever the Federal or State governments, or any agency or officer thereof, or
whenever any person, fine or corporation shall offer to the Village services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant for purposes of
emergency management, the Village, acting through the Village President or the
Board of Trustees, may accept such offer and upon such acceptance the Village
President or the Board of Trustees may authorize any officer of the Village to
receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the
Village. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
2-3-15: UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITY AND PERSONNEL:
In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Coordinator is directed to
utilize the services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing Village
departments, offices and agencies to the maximum extent practicable, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate and extend such services and facilities to
the Coordinator and the EMA. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-28-2018)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN
SECTION:
2-4-1: Title
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: Submittal
2-4-4: Review
2-4-5: Implementation
2-4-6: Violations; Enforcement
2-4-7: Construction
2-4-8: Severability
2-4-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the VILLAGE OF POSEN EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-1999)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires:
CONTROL AREA: An electrical system bounded by interconnection (tie-line)
metering and telemetry. It controls generation directly to maintain its
interchange schedule with other control areas and contributes to frequency
regulation of the interconnection.
CONTROL AREA EMERGENCY: That control area is at risk of having to shed firm
load, having taken or committed to take all feasible mitigating action short of
shedding firm load and firm sales.
CONTROLLED ROTATING INTERRUPTIONS OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE: The implementation of
a plan to curtail electric service to firm load customers for a short period of
time and rotating this curtailment of electric service through different areas
within the electric utility's service territory in a situation where the demand
has exceeded or is at significant risk of exceeding the supply of electricity
available to the electric utility. The action of an electric utility to
interrupt or curtail electric service to a customer participating in or taking
service under an interruptible or curtailable rate is not included in this
definition of a "controlled rotating interruption of electric service".
ELECTRIC UTILITY COMPANY OR ELECTRIC UTILITY: Any person or entity engaged in
the business of distributing, transmitting, or otherwise delivering
electricity, regardless of its source, for use or consumption within the
Village. This term shall not include any person or entity that delivers
electricity to fewer than fifty (50) customers within the Village.
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN: The portions of the emergency load conservation
procedures, which immediately precede and include the controlled rotating
interruption of electrical service to firm load customers within the Village.
The emergency energy plan shall include the following steps:
   (A)   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
   (B)   A declaration of a control area emergency;
   (C)   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use; and
   (D)   Implementation of the plan for controlled rotating interruptions of
electrical service.
EMERGENCY LOAD CONSERVATION PROCEDURES: A planned course of action developed by
an electric utility company to be implemented in emergency situations when the
demand for electricity exceeds, or is at significant risk of exceeding, the
supply of electricity available to the electric utility. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-
1999)
2-4-3: SUBMITTAL:
   (A)   Every electric utility company must have adopted an emergency energy
plan no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Chapter,
or within thirty (30) days after becoming an electric utility company,
whichever is later. Every such electric utility company shall submit to the
ESDA Coordinator an emergency energy plan adopted by the company no later than
thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Chapter, or within twenty
four (24) hours of the time the plan is adopted, whichever is later. The
electric utility company shall be required to examine and update as needed its
emergency energy plan at least annually. The electric utility company shall
notify the foregoing public official in writing of any material revisions to
its plan and the rationale for said revisions within five (5) business days of
the time said revisions are made.
   (B)   The emergency energy plan shall include, at a minimum, information
detailing:
      1.   Circumstances that would require the implementation of the emergency
energy plan;
      2.   Stages of the emergency plan;
      3.   The approximate geographic limits of each outage area provided for
in the emergency energy plan;
      4.   The approximate number of customers within each outage area provided
for in the emergency energy plan;
      5.   The police facilities, fire stations, hospitals, nursing homes,
schools, daycare centers, senior citizen centers, community health centers,
dialysis centers, community mental health centers, correctional facilities,
storm water and wastewater treatment or pumping facilities, and water-pumping
stations that have been identified by the Village and persons on life support
systems that are known to the company and that could be affected by controlled
rotating interruptions of electric service under the emergency energy plan; and
      6.   The anticipated sequence and duration of intentional interruptions
of electric service to each outage area under the emergency energy plan. (Ord.
99-20, 10-26-1999)
2-4-4: REVIEW:
   (A)   Upon submittal of the emergency energy plan to the Village, the
Village shall review the emergency energy plan in order to determine if the
emergency energy plan is complete and to assure appropriate coordination with
public health and safety agencies. The Village may reject the emergency energy
plan if it does not contain all the information required under subsection
2-4-3(B) of this Chapter, in which case the Village shall notify the electric
utility company in writing of said rejection and the reasons therefor. The
electric utility company shall thereafter submit a complete emergency energy
plan to the Village no later than thirty (30) days after such notice is sent by
the Village.
   (B)   The Village and the electric utility shall work cooperatively to:
      1.   Identify customers and facilities for which a controlled rotating
interruption of electric service would require heightened response by Village
public health and safety agencies,
      2.   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on public health and
safety, and
      3.   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on the duties of the
Village's public health and safety agencies. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-1999)
2-4-5: IMPLEMENTATION:
   (A)   Whenever an electric utility company determines that it may be
necessary to implement a controlled rotating interruption of electrical service
due to the demand for electricity exceeding, or being at significant risk of
exceeding, the supply of electricity available to the electric utility company,
the electric utility company shall do the following:
      1.   Take appropriate action in preparation for implementing a controlled
rotating interruption of electric service and notify the appropriate electric
utility company personnel, and
      2.   Notify the ESDA Coordinator that the electric utility company will
be implementing its emergency energy plan. The notification shall be made
pursuant to a notification procedure approved by the Village Board of Trustees,
after consultation with the President of the Village, the ESDA Coordinator may
waive the notice requirement to accommodate exigent circumstances.
   (B)   Subsequent to providing the notice as required above, an electric
utility company shall reasonably and separately advise the designated Village
official when it implements each of the steps of the emergency energy plan.
Such steps shall include the following:
      1.   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
      2.   A declaration of a control area emergency;
      3.   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use.
   (C)   The electric utility company shall give a separate notice to the ESDA
Coordinator, immediately upon the determination that there will be a controlled
rotating interruption of electric service pursuant to the emergency energy
plan. The notification shall include the areas to be interrupted; the sequence
and estimated duration of the service outage for each area; and the affected
feeders and number of affected customers in each area. Whenever practical, the
notification shall be made at least two (2) hours prior to the time of the
outages, and in no case shall the notification be made less than thirty (30)
minutes prior to the outages, if the company is aware that controlled rotating
interruptions may be required.
   (D)   Notification required by this Section shall be in addition to any
notification requirements set forth in any applicable franchise agreement or
franchise ordinance, or as may be required by applicable Federal or State law
or regulation. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-1999)
2-4-6: VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
Any electric utility company that knowingly violates this Chapter or any rules
promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and not more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
The Village may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction
or order to compel the other party to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-1999)
2-4-7: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to preclude or interfere with the
implementation by an electric utility company of measures necessary to assure
the provision of adequate, efficient, reliable and environmentally safe
service, as required by the Illinois Public Utilities Act 1 . Nothing set forth
in this Chapter shall be deemed to modify the terms of any existing franchise
agreement or franchise ordinance otherwise applicable to any electric utility
company, or to excuse any performance required by such agreement or ordinance,
or to limit any authority that may be exercised pursuant to such agreement or
ordinance or to limit any remedy that may be available under such agreement or
ordinance. (Ord. 99-20, 10-26-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2-4-8: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Chapter
be declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court or agency of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of
the remaining words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of
this Chapter, since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Trustees
without the incorporation in this Chapter of any such invalid or
unconstitutional word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section. (Ord.
99-20, 10-26-1999)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Membership
2-6-2: Qualifications
2-6-3: Powers Of Appointment
2-6-4: Rules And Regulations
2-6-5: Secretary
2-6-6: Attorney
2-6-7: Compensation
2-6-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The village president, with the consent of the village board shall appoint the
board of fire and police commissioners which shall consist of three (3) members
whose terms of office shall be three (3) years or June 1, 2008, whichever comes
first. The term of each commissioner of the board of fire and police
commissioners holding office on June 1, 2008, shall expire on April 30, 2009,
or until such commissioner's successor is duly appointed and has qualified.
Thereafter, the term of each commissioner of the board of fire and police
commissioners shall be for a one year period ending on April 30 of each year or
until such commissioner's successor is duly appointed and has qualified. (Ord.
2008-07, 5-27-2008)
2-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members of said board shall possess the qualifications required of other
officers of the village, shall take oath or affirmation of office and give bond
in the same manner as other appointive officers of the village.
The members shall be subject to removal from office as other officers of the
village. (Ord. 71-10, 9-14-1971)
2-6-3: POWERS OF APPOINTMENT:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall appoint all full time
officers, with the exception of the fire chief and the chief of police, which
appointments shall be made as provided by statute. All appointments made by the
board of fire and police commissioners shall be made from the rank next below
that to which the appointment shall be made, other than that of the lowest
rank. (Ord. 71-10, 9-14-1971)
2-6-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall make rules and regulations
relative to the appointments and removals of full time members of the fire and
police departments; however, the rules and regulations relative to the conduct
of members of the fire and police departments shall be promulgated from time to
time by the fire chief and the chief of police for their respective
departments, subject to the adoption and approval of such conduct rules and
regulations from time to time by the village president and board of trustees.
(Ord. 88-14, 4-12-1988)
2-6-5: SECRETARY:
Said board may employ a secretary or may designate one of its own members to
act as same. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board's proceedings,
shall be custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the board, shall
keep a record of all examinations held, and shall perform such other duties as
the board may prescribe. (Ord. 71-10, 9-14-1971)
2-6-6: ATTORNEY:
The board may employ an attorney to represent and advise the board, attend its
meetings, and handle prosecutions before it. The board's attorney shall be
compensated as provided by the annual appropriation ordinance of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 71-10, 9-14-1971)
2-6-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall be paid fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each meeting they attend where a quorum of the board of
fire and police commissioners is present and substantive business is
transacted; provided, that no member of the board of fire and police
commissioners shall be compensated for his or her attendance at more than nine
(9) meetings per calendar year. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-23-2007)
TITLE III
DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-1-1: Department Created
3-1-2: Police Officers Designated
3-1-2-1: Part Time Police Officers
3-1-3: Chief Of Police; Appointment And Duties; Salary
3-1-4: Deputy Chief Of Police; Duties
3-1-5: Books Of Records
3-1-6: Police Surgeon; Duties (Rep. by Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-7: Police Matrons
3-1-8: Animal Care Section
3-1-9: Custodian Of Seized And Unclaimed Property; Record; Sale
3-1-10: Unclaimed Property; Proceeds From Sale
3-1-11: Seized Weapons; Sale Forbidden
3-1-12: Duties Of Police Officers
3-1-13: Arrests
3-1-14: Service Of Warrants
3-1-15: Assistance To Fire Department
3-1-16: Street Excavations; Requiring Exhibition Of Permit
3-1-17: Neglect Of Duty; Discharge
3-1-18: Fraud Or Neglect; Penalty
3-1-19: Resisting An Officer; Escapes
3-1-20: Duty Restrictions; Uniforms
3-1-21: Rewards (Rep. by Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-22: Investigation Of Complaints Against Officers
3-1-23: Vacations (Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-24: Sickness (Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-25: Additional Employment Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-26: Notice Of Resignation Required
3-1-27: Special Police
3-1-28: Appointment; Suspension; Termination
3-1-29: Residency Requirements; Uniform Allotments; Court Appearance
Compensation; Other Terms Of Employment
3-1-30: Retirement
3-1-31: Work Period
3-1-32: Transportation Of Human Remains
3-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby established an executive department of the Municipal government
of the Village which shall be known as the Department of Police. The department
shall embrace the offices and positions hereinafter enumerated and such others
as may be provided for from time to time in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(1965 Code)
3-1-2: POLICE OFFICERS DESIGNATED:
The following offices are created, and officers designated, of the Posen Police
Department:
   (A)   Chief of Police, who shall be appointed by the Village President, with
the approval of the Board of Trustees, as provided in section
3-1-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   Two (2) officers with the rank of Sergeant, who shall be hired
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Posen Fire and Police Commission.
In addition, four (4) officers with the rank of Corporal, who shall be
appointed by the Chief of Police on May 1st of each year, with the approval and
consent of the Village President and Board of Trustees. An additional Corporal,
if necessary, may be appointed to a Specialty Unit, with the approval and
consent of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Such numbers of patrolmen, patrolwomen, radio operators, special
police officers, police matrons and employees as may be provided for in the
annual appropriation ordinance of the Village or the collective bargaining
agreement in effect between the Village of Posen and the lawfully designated
bargaining unit. (Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 1-27-2015; Ord.
2021-17, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2022-21, 8-23-2022)
3-1-2-1: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   (A)   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Posen Police Department, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (B)   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (C)   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the Village of Posen authorities, shall not have any property
rights in said employment, and may be removed by the Village of Posen
authorities at any time. Part time officers shall comply with all applicable
rules of general orders issued by the Police Department. (Ord. 2012-03, 2-27-
2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
3-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES; SALARY:
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the President with the
approval of the Board of Trustees. He shall have the management and control of
all matters relating to the Police Department, its officers and members. He
shall have custody and control of the offices, stations, equipment, books,
records and other property belonging to the department. He shall be responsible
for securing and maintaining an accounting and inventory system for all Village
funds and property in the department's possession and regularly provide an
accounting of such funds and property.
   (B)   He shall preserve the peace and secure good order and cleanliness
within the Village, and to that end he shall enforce all laws of the Village
and the orders of the President and Board of Trustees. The chief is responsible
for maintaining a positive, healthy work environment within the department that
is free from sexual harassment and discrimination based on race, gender, age
and religious affiliation. Pursuant to this subsection he shall be primarily
responsible for prompt investigation of all department employee claims of
violations of this policy.
   (C)   The annual salary of the chief of police shall be set annually by
ordinance by the president and board of trustees. The president and the board
of trustees shall have sole discretion to determine said salary but shall use
the customary salary for a police chief in a similarly sized and geographically
located municipality in the state of Illinois as a guide. (Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-
2006)
3-1-4: DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
The duties of the deputy chief of police shall be to act in place and stead of
the chief of police in the event of his absence or inability to act. He shall
assist the chief of police in the exercise of all of his duties and shall also
perform such duties as may be assigned to him by the chief of police.
The deputy chief of police shall be appointed by the president and board of
trustees. (1965 Code)
3-1-5: BOOKS OF RECORDS:
The chief of police shall cause the following books of record to be kept in the
department of police: persons arrested; accounts of monies received and
expended and the purposes thereof; all properties placed in his charge; time
lost by other employees of the police department and such other books and
records as shall be required by the business of the department.
The chief of police shall also cause a complete record to be kept of all
felonies committed within the village. This record shall be open at all times
to the president and members of the board of trustees.
The complete history of each person charged with having committed a felony
shall be kept which shall include a record of all orders entered in the
proceedings and the final disposition thereof by the coroner, the coroner's
jury, the grand jury or the court. (1965 Code)
3-1-6: POLICE SURGEON; DUTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-7: POLICE MATRONS:
The matrons shall have charge of all female prisoners who are held in the
village jail. (1965 Code)
3-1-8: ANIMAL CARE SECTION:
The police chief shall have the authority to order running at large or
dangerous animals held at the village or animal control pound servicing the
village, until such time as a determination has been made as to the ownership
if any, and legality of such animal is made in accordance with title VIII,
chapter 6 of this code. (Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-9: CUSTODIAN OF SEIZED AND UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; RECORD; SALE:
The chief of police shall act as custodian of all property seized or taken by
the police.
All members of the department into whose possession may come any property
seized or taken shall deliver the same at once to the chief of police.
The chief of police shall keep a record of all property which may be seized or
otherwise taken possession of by the police force.
The sale of unclaimed property shall be in accordance with, and pursuant to, an
act relating to the custody and disposition of certain property possessed by
law enforcement agencies known as the law enforcement disposition of property
act of Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of the previous paragraphs, if any
property so seized or taken shall be perishable, bulky, dangerous or so
inadvisably impractical in nature to retain for the length of time herein set
forth, the chief of police, after consultation with the village president or
village attorney may cause such property to be immediately advertised and shall
sell the property at public auction at any time after three (3) days shall have
elapsed from the seizure or taking thereof. (Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 1030.
3-1-10: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; PROCEEDS FROM SALE:
The proceeds of any such sale of unclaimed property, as provided in section
3-1-9 of this chapter, after deducting the costs and expenses of the sale,
shall be deposited to the general corporate account of the village. (Ord. 79-2,
1-9-1979)
3-1-11: SEIZED WEAPONS; SALE FORBIDDEN:
None of the provisions of section
3-1-9 of this chapter shall apply to pistols, revolvers, knives, metallic
knuckles or other deadly weapons of like character. All such weapons except
those that the chief of police shall deem to be of use to the department shall
within six (6) months after their receipt be destroyed by the chief of police
and the chairman of the committee on public safety. (1965 Code)
3-1-12: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
The members of the police force while on duty shall devote their full time and
attention to the discharge of their duties according to the laws of the state,
the provisions of this code and the rules and regulations of the department to
preserve order, peace and quiet and enforce the laws throughout the village.
(1965 Code)
3-1-13: ARRESTS:
The members of the police force shall have power to arrest all persons in the
village found in the act of violating any law or aiding and abetting in any
such violation, and shall arrest any person found under circumstances which
would warrant a reasonable man in believing that such person had committed or
is about to commit a crime. (1965 Code)
3-1-14: SERVICE OF WARRANTS:
The members of the police force shall have power and authority and it shall be
their duty to serve and execute warrants and other process in the village for
the summoning, apprehension, and commitment of any person charged with
violation of any provision of this code, or with any crime or misdemeanor, or
offense against the laws of the village or state. (1965 Code)
3-1-15: ASSISTANCE TO FIRE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of members of the police force to aid the fire department
by giving alarms in case of fire and by clearing the streets or grounds in the
immediate vicinity of a fire, so that the members of the fire department shall
not be hindered or obstructed in the performance of their duties. (1965 Code)
3-1-16: STREET EXCAVATIONS; REQUIRING EXHIBITION OF PERMIT:
It shall be the duty of every policeman, on observing or being informed of any
opening or excavation in any public way, to require the person making such
opening or excavation to exhibit the authority or permission therefor. If none
has been given by the proper officer, or if such exhibition thereof be refused,
the policeman shall without delay report the same to the commissioner of public
works. (1965 Code)
3-1-17: NEGLECT OF DUTY; DISCHARGE:
Any member of the police force who shall refuse or neglect to perform any duty
required of him, when such refusal or neglect to perform any such duty shall
tend to hinder, obstruct, or impair in any way the proper and strict
enforcement of any law or the efficiency of the police force, is hereby
declared to be no longer qualified to be a member of the police force, and
shall be discharged from the police force and the service of the village in the
manner provided by law. (1965 Code)
3-1-18: FRAUD OR NEGLECT; PENALTY:
Any member of the police department who shall neglect or refuse to perform any
duty required of him by the provisions of this chapter or the rules and
regulations of the department, or who shall in the discharge of his official
duties be guilty of any fraud, extortion, oppression, favoritism or wilful
wrong or injustice, may, in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed
by law, be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
(1965 Code)
3-1-19: RESISTING AN OFFICER; ESCAPES:
Any person who shall resist any officer of the police department in the
discharge of his duties or shall in any way interfere with or hinder or prevent
him from discharging his duty as such officer, or shall offer or endeavor to do
so, and whoever shall in any manner assist any person in the custody of any
member of the police force to escape or attempt to escape from such custody, or
attempt to rescue any person in custody, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1965 Code)
3-1-20: DUTY RESTRICTIONS; UNIFORMS:
No member of the police force shall be assigned to any duty other than that
strictly in the line of police work.
No member of the police force, except members thereof assigned to detective or
confidential duty, shall wear citizen's dress while on duty.
Every member of the police department shall wear a suitable badge to be
furnished by the village and any member who shall lose or destroy the same
shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it. Whenever any member shall
leave the department he shall immediately deliver his badge to the chief of
police. (1965 Code)
3-1-21: REWARDS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-22: INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS AGAINST OFFICERS:
All complaints of citizens regarding officers and members of the department
shall be investigated promptly and thoroughly. The substance of all oral
complaints and copies of written complaints received at the police stations and
by the various bureaus, divisions, and sections of the service, shall be
forwarded promptly to the chief of police. (1965 Code)
3-1-23: VACATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-24: SICKNESS:
(Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-25: ADDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 86-41, 12-22-1986)
3-1-26: NOTICE OF RESIGNATION REQUIRED:
No person shall resign any position on the police force except upon fifteen
(15) days' notice in writing, given to the chief of police. Any person
withdrawing without leave shall thereafter be deemed disqualified to become a
member of the department. (1965 Code)
3-1-27: SPECIAL POLICE:
Special or extra police, for special or part time duty, shall be appointed by
the village president. All requests for special police protection or service
shall be made to the chairman of the committee on public safety. (1965 Code)
3-1-28: APPOINTMENT; SUSPENSION; TERMINATION:
Police department chief, part time members of the police department and
civilian employees shall be appointed by the village president and confirmed by
the village board. Part time members and civilian employees may be suspended
from their positions by the village president for any period not to exceed
thirty (30) days. Any suspension exceeding thirty (30) days, or removal from
duties permanently, of said part time members and civilian employees shall be
approved by the village board.
The appointment of all full time officers, except the chief of police, and
suspension or removal of full time police shall be by the board of fire and
police commissioners as provided in title 2, chapter 6 of this code, and
Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 72-4, 4-11-1972)
3-1-29: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS; UNIFORM ALLOTMENTS; COURT APPEARANCE
COMPENSATION; OTHER TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT:
Police department employee residency restrictions, uniform allotments and court
appearance compensation shall be set by the most recent collective bargaining
agreement in existence between the village and the bargaining unit representing
the employees. Except as specifically set forth in the provisions of the
bargaining agreement all other terms of employment shall be determined by the
village president. (Ord. 2006-08, 9-12-2006)
3-1-30: RETIREMENT:
The compulsory retirement age of full time members of the police department,
except the police chief, shall be sixty five (65) years of age. (Ord. 72-5, 4-
11-1972)
3-1-31: WORK PERIOD:
The work period of employment for officers, members, and employees of the
police department shall be designated and prescribed by the village president
and board of trustees.
Specific duty hours within the work period shall be assigned by the police
chief. In addition, all policemen shall be required to report for, and remain
on, duty in the event of any emergency upon order by the village president or
police chief. (Ord. 77-29, 12-13-1977)
3-1-32: TRANSPORTATION OF HUMAN REMAINS:
When, in the opinion of a member of the police force or their designee, it is
advisable to arrange for transportation of human remains, from any location
within the village or any scene where said member is located, the village may
charge a fee to any and all responsible parties for said transportation. Said
fee shall be in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or the
actual transportation cost as determined by a third party transporter,
whichever is greater. (Ord. 2012-07, 4-24-2012)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-2-1: Fire Department Established
3-2-2: Duties Of The Fire Chief
3-2-3: Powers Of The Fire Chief
3-2-4: Duties Of The Assistant Fire Chief
3-2-5: Duties Of The Captain
3-2-6: Duties Of The Lieutenants
3-2-7: Duties Of The Engineers
3-2-8: Full Time Paid Membership
3-2-9: Paid On Call, Part Time Volunteer Membership
3-2-10: Number Of Members; Status Of Auxiliary Members
3-2-11: Incentive Point System
3-2-12: Interference With Duty And Equipment
3-2-13: Vehicles Driven Over Hose
3-2-14: Property Saved From Fire
3-2-15: Opening, Tampering With Signal Devices Prohibited
3-2-16: Response Outside Village Limits
3-2-17: Delivering Books, Equipment To Successor
3-2-18: Retirement
3-2-19: Fire Record, Report
3-2-20: Uniform Allotments
3-2-21: Fees For Services Rendered
3-2-22: Impersonate Firefighter
3-2-23: Fire Department Keys
3-2-24: False Alarms
3-2-25: Use Of Fire Hydrants
3-2-26: Obstruction Of Fire Hydrants
3-2-27: Participation In State Training Program
3-2-28: Reports To State Fire Marshal; Investigations; Enforcement Of State Law
3-2-29: Bureau Of Fire Prevention
3-2-30: Approval Of Plans
3-2-31: Repairs To Equipment
3-2-32: Establishment Of Mobile Intensive Care Unit
3-2-33: Foreign Fire Insurance Board
3-2-34: Treasurer
3-2-35: Enforcement Of Code
3-2-36: Penalties
3-2-37: Publication
3-2-38: Effective Date
3-2-39: Savings Clause
3-2-1: FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There is hereby established and created a fire department which shall
be known as the "Posen fire department". Its purpose and object shall be the
prevention and extinguishment of fires and the preservation and protection of
life and property from and during such fires and emergencies as may occur
within the village. It shall consist of a fire chief who shall be appointed by
the village president and by and with the consent of the village board of
trustees, said fire chief to hold such office for the term of one year and
until his successor is appointed and qualified; and such assistant chiefs,
captains, lieutenants, engineers and members as may from time to time be
appointed by the chief with the concurrence of the village president and board
of trustees.
   (B)   If the chief holds a position or rank attained under the board of fire
and police commissioners, he shall revert to that rank or position if he is not
reappointed chief of the fire department upon the expiration of his term.
   (C)   Regular full time members may be appointed by the board of fire and
police commissioners after authorization has been received from the village
board to conduct the necessary tests. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27,
11-22-1993)
3-2-2: DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF:
   (A)   The fire chief shall have the management and control of all matters
and things pertaining to the fire department and of all personnel in the
department. All such personnel shall be under the direction and control and
supervision of the fire chief, including full time, part time, paid on call,
volunteer and civilian personnel, subject to such rules and regulations as
adopted by the village board of trustees and the board of fire and police
commissioners.
   (B)   He shall have the custody of all property and equipment assigned or
given to the Fire Department.
   (C)   He shall, whenever possible, attend all fires or major emergencies in
the Village and take charge of the Department. In case of his absence from any
alarm it shall be the duty of the Assistant Chief or highest ranking officer
responding to take charge of the Department. Such officer shall have and
exercise all powers of the Fire Chief.
   (D)   He shall develop and maintain such written rules and regulations
concerning the administration and operation of the Fire Department as may be
necessary, subject to the adoption and approval of same by the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   He or a delegate subordinate, shall inquire into and investigate the
cause of all fires which may occur in the Village as soon as may be after they
occur and keep a record of the circumstances of each case, and forward a report
of the investigation to the Illinois State Fire Marshal's office.
   (F)   He, or a delegate subordinate, shall have the right to enter upon the
premises wherein any fire has occurred, if necessary in order to investigate
the cause of the fire. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-3: POWERS OF THE FIRE CHIEF:
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or in his absence, the officer in command at any fire,
shall have the power to cause the removal of any property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of such property from fire, or to prevent
the spreading of fires, or to protect adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, or in his absence, the officers in command at any
fire, may direct the members of the Fire Department to cut down and remove any
building, structure, fence or any other obstruction, for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the progress of any fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or any other officer in command at any fire or other
emergency, may prescribe limits in the vicinity of any fire or other emergency,
within which no persons, except fire fighters, policemen and those admitted by
an officer of the Fire Department shall be permitted to enter, and the
department of police shall, upon request of the Fire Chief, or other officer in
command of the Fire Department at any fire, enforce the provisions of this
Section.
   (D)   It shall be the duty or responsibility of the Fire Chief or a
designated subordinate upon his own initiative, or when requested by any
citizen representing that a fire hazard of any nature or other emergency is
present on a premises within the Village, to take whatever action is necessary
to enforce applicable ordinances and regulations.
   (E)   All persons within the vicinity of a fire or other emergency shall
subject to the lawful orders of the Fire Chief or other officers of the Fire
Department in command. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-4: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF:
The duties of the Assistant Fire Chief shall be to act in the capacity of Fire
Chief in his or her absence, as well as such other duties as may be prescribed
by the rules and regulations of the Posen Fire Department. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-
88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-5: DUTIES OF THE CAPTAIN:
In the absence of his or her immediate supervising officer, the senior captain
shall take command and the authority powers, duties, and responsibilities of
such superior officer shall be vested in such captain, as well as such other
duties as may be prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Posen Fire
Department. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-6: DUTIES OF THE LIEUTENANTS:
In the absence of his or her immediate supervisor, the senior lieutenant shall
take command and the authority, powers, duties and responsibilities of such
superior officer shall be vested in such lieutenant, as well as such other
duties as may be prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Posen Fire
Department. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-7: DUTIES OF THE ENGINEERS:
The duties of the engineers, shall be as described by the rules and regulations
of the Posen Fire Department. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-8: FULL-TIME PAID MEMBERSHIP:
   (A)   Any member obtaining full-time status with the Posen Fire Department
shall be a State certified paramedic by the Illinois Department of Public
Health prior to acceptance on the Posen Fire Department. He or she must
maintain his or her certification with the resource hospital with which the
Village is associated for a minimum period of ten (10) years from the date of
his employment. If he or she is not recertified as required by the resource
hospital then he or she may be terminated as a full-time employee of the Posen
Fire Department by lawful action of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
After serving a period of ten (10) years the employee may resume regular status
as a firefighter.
   (B)   Paid full-time personnel shall be appointed and promoted in accordance
with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et. seq., and
as may be further provided herein.
   (C)   Paid full-time personnel may be suspended from their full- time job by
the Fire Chief in accordance with the rules promulgated by the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners. All recommendations, for discipline by other officers
will be submitted to the Fire Chief for action where appropriate. (Ord. 88-15,
4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-9: PAID ON CALL, PART-TIME VOLUNTEER MEMBERSHIP:
   (A)   There is hereby established a paid on call, part-time volunteer
section of the Posen Fire Department as an auxiliary to the full-time, paid
Fire Department. Any part-time paid on call, or volunteer member of this
Department who is not a full-time paid member will hereinafter be referred to
as an auxiliary member of the Posen Fire Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall, by rules and regulations prescribe the
qualifications and standards by which the application for membership of said
auxiliary personnel shall be governed. Acceptance of auxiliary members will be
the discretion of the Fire Chief providing they have met all prerequisites as
prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Posen Fire Department.
   (C)   No auxiliary member of the Posen Fire Department shall be subject to
any of the regulations relating to the full-time Fire Department. Any auxiliary
officer or member may have his authority revoked at any time by the Fire Chief
for due cause with a right to a post-discipline hearing within seventy two (72)
hours if so requested in writing, said request to be directed to the Fire
Chief.
   (D)   Auxiliary members shall respond to a minimum number of alarms and
training sessions prescribed by the Fire Chief in order to remain in good
standing with the Department.
   (E)   In the event that any member has failed to give the minimum response,
the minimum drill attendance as prescribed by the Fire Chief or if he fails to
report for duty, except for good cause shown, the Fire Chief shall inquire into
the reason therefor and unless good reason is shown for said failure to render
the minimum amount of service as prescribed by the Fire Chief or unexcused
absence from duties, said member of the auxiliary section of the Posen Fire
Department may be subjected to summary dismissal from the Department. (Ord. 88-
15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-10: NUMBER OF MEMBERS; STATUS OF AUXILIARY MEMBERS:
The Fire Department shall consist of as many full-time and auxiliary members as
the President and Village Board of Trustees shall from time to time determine
the need. All active members, full-time and auxiliary, are part of the Posen
Fire Department and are subject to all rules and regulations of the Department.
(Ord. 88-15, 4-12-88; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-93)
3-2-11: INCENTIVE POINT SYSTEM:
   (A)   That the Village of Posen's annual appropriation for the Fire
Department Reimbursement Training Program "incentive point system" be disbursed
in twelve (12) monthly installments. Each installment will be due on the first
working day of each month.
   (B)   That the Posen Fire Department incentive point system be governed by
the policies and procedures adopted by the Posen Fire Department and approved
by the President of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The determination of the point value of any given month will be
calculated by dividing the total monthly installments by the total number of
accumulated points of all participating members.
   (D)   The determination of each individual member's reimbursement will be
calculated by multiplying the total points earned for the month by the point
value of that month.
   (E)   The monthly installment will be as provided for and approved by the
village president and board of trustees from time to time.
   (F)   The disbursement and control of the incentive point system shall be
the responsibility of the fire chief of the Posen fire department. (Ord. 90-14,
8-14-1990)
3-2-12: INTERFERENCE WITH DUTY AND EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with a member of the fire
department in the performance of his duty, or to refuse or neglect to furnish
any member of the fire department help or information pertaining to the cause
or origin of any fire, or to hinder any fire investigation in any manner. It
shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to wilfully destroy, damage or
deface any fire department vehicle, station, property or other equipment
belonging to the village. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-13: VEHICLES DRIVEN OVER HOSE:
No railroad car or any other type of vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected fire hose of the fire department when laid down by orders of the
fire chief or officers and members of the fire department. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-
1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-14: PROPERTY SAVED FROM FIRE:
No person shall take away any property in possession of the fire department,
that was saved from a fire until proof of ownership is offered to the
satisfaction of the officer in command. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-
27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-15: OPENING, TAMPERING WITH SIGNAL DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No person or persons except those connected with management of the fire
department shall open any signal box unless to communicate an alarm of fire; or
break, cut, deface, derange, damage, or in any manner meddle or interfere with
any signal box, fire alarm, telegraph, or telephone used for transmitting fire
alarms. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-16: RESPONSE OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS:
Members of the fire department are hereby authorized to respond outside the
corporate limits of the village for the purpose of rendering aid to other fire
departments, municipalities, cities, or villages in case of fire or emergency.
The fire chief may enter into written agreement with persons desiring such aid
provided such agreements are approved by the president and village board of
trustees. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-17: DELIVERING BOOKS, EQUIPMENT TO SUCCESSOR:
On the expiration of his term of office or his resignation thereof or removal
therefrom the fire chief shall on demand, deliver to his or her successor in
office all books, records, equipment and property of every description in his
or her possession belonging to the village or appertaining to his or her said
office. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-18: RETIREMENT:
The compulsory retirement age of full time members of the fire department,
except fire chief, shall be sixty five (65) years of age. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-
1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-1993)
3-2-19: FIRE RECORD, REPORT:
Said fire chief shall keep a full, true and complete record of all the property
and equipment of the fire department, together with a record of all
transactions of the fire department and of all property placed in his charge
and custody; and he shall annually, at the close of each fiscal year, make a
written report to the president and board showing the condition of the
department, under his management, together with a complete list of all fires
occurring in the village during the preceding year, the date and location of
each fire, the loss incurred thereby, the amount of insurance and such other
information as he may deem important. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27,
11-22-1993)
3-2-20: UNIFORM ALLOTMENTS:
   (A)   Each full time member of the village fire department will be allotted
an amount not to exceed two hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00) annually for
uniform apparel; provided, that each request for uniform apparel allotment is
submitted to, and approved by, the fire committee and the village board of
trustees. All uniforms shall be identical in style, material and adornment.
   (B)   The village fire department will be allotted an amount not to exceed
one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) annually per auxiliary member on the
roster at the time of reimbursement. The reimbursement will be made each
January 1, and will be to the Posen Firefighter's Association, who will then
handle all recordkeeping and distribution. The funds will be used for
protective clothing and/or uniform apparel; provided, that each request for
protective clothing and/or uniform apparel allotment is submitted to, and
approved by, the fire chief. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988; amd. Ord. 93-27, 11-22-
1993)
3-2-21: FEES FOR SERVICES RENDERED:
   (A)   Rates:
      1.   Hourly Rates: When services are rendered by personnel of the village
fire department such services shall be billed to persons, businesses or other
entities at a rate of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per hour for
each hour that each vehicle of the village fire department is in use in
performing such services and twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour for each
hour that each firefighter is engaged in performing such services. Additional
charges may be levied to reimburse the village fire department when
extraordinary expenses for material used in rendering such services are
incurred. (Ord. 2004-11, 5-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2013-07, 9-10-2013)
      2.   Nonresident Rates: In responding to emergencies of nonresidents, the
fire protection district charges the following fees:
         (a)   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per vehicle, for responding
to a call;
         (b)   Seventy dollars ($70.00) per hour, per firefighter, for
responding to a call;
         (c)   An additional charge may be levied to reimburse the district for
extraordinary expenses of materials used in rendering such services.
         (d)   No charges shall be made for services for which the total charge
would be less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Technical Rescue Services: For each category of technical rescue
services provided, except extrication rescue/recovery services the fire
protection district charges the following fees:
 
                          Resident    Nonresident
Per hour, per vehicle     $125.00     $250.00
Per hour, per team member 35.00       70.00
Materials costs           Actual cost Actual cost
 
For extrication rescue/recovery services, a fixed fee of three hundred seventy
five dollars ($375.00) per person receiving such services, regardless of
whether such person is a resident or nonresident of the district. (Ord. 2013-
07, 9-10-2013)
      4.   Motor Vehicle Incidents:
         Level 1: Four hundred thirty five dollars ($435.00):
Provide hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization. This will be
the most common "billing level". This occurs almost every time the fire
department responds to an accident/incident.
         Level 2: Four hundred ninety five dollars ($495.00):
Includes level 1 services as well as cleanup and material used (sorbents) for
hazardous fluid cleanup and disposal. We will bill at this level if the fire
department has to clean up any gasoline or other automotive fluids that are
spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
         Level 3: Car fire: Six hundred five dollars ($605.00):
Provide scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand
tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection, and clean up gasoline or
other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
         Level 4: One thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00):
Includes levels 1 and 2 services as well as extrication (heavy rescue tools,
ropes, airbags, cribbing, etc.). We will bill at this level if the fire
department has to free/remove anyone from the vehicle(s) using any equipment.
We will not bill at this level if the patient is simply unconscious and fire
department is able to open the door to access the patient. This level is to be
billed only if equipment is deployed.
         Level 5: Two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200.00):
Includes levels 1, 2, and 4 services as well as air care (multi-engine company
response, mutual aid, helicopter). We will bill at this level any time a
helicopter is utilized to transport the patient(s).
         Level 6:
Itemized response: You have the option to bill each incident as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates, for each incident using itemized rates
deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed,
itemized per apparatus, per personnel, plus products and equipment used.
   Additional time on scene:
      Engine billed at four hundred dollars ($400.00) per hour.
Truck billed at five hundred dollars ($500.00) per hour.
Miscellaneous equipment billed at three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      5.   HAZMAT:
         Level 1: Seven hundred dollars ($700.00):
Basic response: Claim will include engine response, first responder assignment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, setup and command.
         Level 2: Two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00):
Intermediate response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, HAZMAT certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, setup and command, level A or B suit donning,
breathing air and detection equipment. Set up and removal of decon center.
         Level 3: Five thousand nine hundred dollars ($5,900.00):
Advanced response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, HAZMAT certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder setup and command, level A or B
suit donning, breathing air and detection equipment and robot deployment. Set
up and removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and
identification of material. Disposal and environment cleanup. Includes above in
addition to any disposal rates of material and contaminated equipment and
material used at scene. Includes three (3) hours of on scene time; each
additional hour at three hundred dollars ($300.00) per HAZMAT team.
Additional time on scene (for all levels of service):
Engine billed at four hundred dollars ($400.00) per hour.
Truck billed at five hundred dollars ($500.00) per hour.
Miscellaneous equipment billed at three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      6.   Pipeline Incidents:
(Includes, but not limited to: gas, sewer, septic to sewer, and water
pipelines.)
         Level 1: Four hundred dollars ($400.00):
Basic response: Claim will include engine response and first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder setup and
command. Includes inspection without damage or breakage.
         Level 2: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00):
Intermediate response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, and appropriate equipment, perimeter establishment, evacuations,
first responder setup and command. May include HAZMAT team, level A or B suit
donning, breathing air and detection equipment. Supervise and/or assist
pipeline repair.
         Level 3: Itemized claim charges:
Advanced response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, and appropriate equipment, perimeter establishment, evacuations,
first responder setup and command. May include HAZMAT team, level A or B suit
donning, breathing air and detection equipment. Supervise and/or assist
pipeline repair of intermediate to major pipeline damage. May include set up
and removal of decon center, detection, recovery and identification of
material. Disposal and environment cleanup.
      7.   Fire Investigation:
Fire investigation team: Two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00) per hour.
Includes:
         (a)   Scene safety.
         (b)   Investigation.
         (c)   Source identification.
         (d)   K-9/arson dog unit.
         (e)   Identification equipment.
         (f)   Mobile detection unit.
         (g)   Fire report.
The claim begins when the fire investigator responds to the incident and is
billed for logged time only.
      8.   Fires:
Fire outside of the corporate limits of the village of Posen-unincorporated
Cook County.
Assignment: Four hundred dollars ($400.00) per hour, per engine/five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per hour, per truck. Includes:
         (a)   Scene safety.
         (b)   Investigation.
         (c)   Fire/hazard control.
This will be the most common "billing level". This occurs almost every time the
fire department responds to an incident.
Optional: A fire department has the option to bill each fire as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates.
Itemized, per person, at various pay levels and for itemized products use.
      9.   Illegal Fires:
Assignment: Four hundred dollars ($400.00) per hour, per engine/five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per hour, per truck.
When a fire is started by any person or persons that requires a fire department
response during a time or season when fires are regulated or controlled by
local or state rules, provisions or ordinances because of pollution or fire
danger concerns, such person or persons will be liable for the fire department
response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the fire
department to respond and contain the fire. Similarly, if a fire is started
where permits are required for such a fire and the permit was not obtained and
the fire department is required to respond to contain the fire, the responsible
party will be liable for the response at a cost not to exceed the actual
expenses incurred by the fire department. The actual expenses will include
direct labor, equipment costs and any other costs that can be reasonably
allocated to the cost of the response.
      10.   Water Incidents:
         Level 1:
Basic response: Claim will include engine response, first responder assignment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder setup and command, scene
safety and investigation (including possible patient contact, hazard control).
This will be the most common "billing level". This occurs almost every time the
fire department responds to a water incident.
Billed at four hundred dollars ($400.00) plus fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour,
per rescue person.
         Level 2:
Intermediate response: Includes level 1 services as well as cleanup and
material used (sorbents), minor hazardous cleanup and disposal. We will bill at
this level if the fire department has to clean up small amounts of gasoline or
other fluids that are spilled as a result of the incident.
Billed at eight hundred dollars ($800.00) plus fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour,
per rescue person.
         Level 3:
Advanced response: Includes level 1 and level 2 services as well as DART
activation, donning breathing apparatus and detection equipment. Set up and
removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and identification of
material. Disposal and environment cleanup. Includes above in addition to any
disposal rates of material and contaminated equipment and material used at
scene.
Billed at two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) plus fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour
per rescue person, plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour per HAZMAT team
member.
         Level 4:
Itemized response: You have the option to bill each incident as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates for each incident using itemized rates
deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed,
itemized, per trained rescue person, plus rescue products used.
      11.   Back Country Or Special Rescue:
Itemized response: Each incident will be billed with custom mitigation rates
deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed,
itemized per apparatus per hour, per trained rescue person per hour, plus
rescue products used.
Minimum billed four hundred dollars ($400.00) for the first response vehicle
plus fifty dollars ($50.00) per rescue person. Additional rates of four hundred
dollars ($400.00) per hour per response vehicle and fifty dollars ($50.00) per
hour per rescue person.
      12.   Chief Response:
This includes the set up of command, and providing direction of the incident.
This could include operations, safety, and administration of the incident.
Billed at two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per hour.
      13.   Miscellaneous/Additional Time On Scene:
Engine billed at four hundred dollars ($400.00) per hour.
Truck billed at five hundred dollars ($500.00) per hour.
Miscellaneous equipment billed at three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      14.   Mitigation Rate Notes:
The mitigation rates above are average "billing levels", and are typical for
the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing costs for a typical
run (from the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it returns to the
station) and are based on the actual costs, using amortized schedules for
apparatus (including useful life, equipment, repairs, and maintenance) and
labor rates (an average department's "actual personnel expense" and not just a
firefighter's basic wage). The actual personnel expense includes costs such as
wages, retirement, benefits, workers' compensation, insurance, etc.
   (B)   No Charges Made: No charge shall be made for services for which the
village fire department provides to persons, businesses or other entities as a
result of a mutual aid, automatic aid, or assistance agreement between the
village and other communities unless authorization is received from that
community prior to billing.
   (C)   Reimbursement Of Fire Department Emergency Medical Equipment And
Related Expenses: All users of ambulance equipment and/or other fire department
equipment and its personnel in association with emergency medical services
hereinafter shall be charged per person. The fees shall be as follows:
      Ambulance transport (resident)         $1,200.00
      Ambulance transport (nonresident)          1,650.00
      Ambulance mileage charge per mile          20.00
      Response charge (no transport/nontreatment)    125.00
      Engine assistance                450.00
      Chief/assistant chief response          250.00
      Second crew assistance and response        700.00
      General mileage (all other vehicles)         20.00
      Records                  20.00
   (D)   Distribution Of Fees: Fees collected in accordance with subsection (C)
of this section shall be distributed in the following manner:
      1.   All fees shall be deposited in the general fund of the village.
   (E)   Enforcement: The village may enforce the provisions of this section by
civil actions in court, for the collection of amounts due or other appropriate
relief.
   (F)   No Refusal Or Delay Of Services: Nothing in this section shall
authorize any village department or village personnel to refuse or delay any
service to any person, business, or entity.
   (G)   Conflicts: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this
section are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 2004-11, 5-
25-2004; amd. Ord. 2005-10, 8-23-2005; Ord. 2014-08, 5-13-2014; Ord. 2024-03,
3-12-2024)
3-2-22: IMPERSONATE FIREFIGHTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person not a member of the fire department at any
time, by wearing a uniform, cap insignia, badge or in any way attempt to create
the impression that he is a member or official of the Posen fire department.
(Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-23: FIRE DEPARTMENT KEYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or make or cause
to be made any key or keys of any fire station or fire department equipment, or
cause to be used any such key without the prior consent of the fire chief.
(Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-24: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to negligently, maliciously or wilfully
give any false alarm to any fire or police station through the use of any
emergency alarm box, public or private telephone, or by any other means. (Ord.
88-15, 4-12-1988)
   (A)   False Alarm Service Charge:
      1.   Types Of False Alarms Charged: A fire alarm user shall be charged a
service charge for each false fire alarm if such false fire alarm is:
         (a)   Given intentionally,
         (b)   Due or caused by a lack of required maintenance as specified in
the National Fire Protection Association code section 72, or
         (c)   Resulting from any test, repair, alteration, or addition to the
fire protection system without prior notification thereof to the village fire
department.
      2.   Service Charge: A fire alarm user shall be charged a service charge
for a false fire alarm as follows:
         (a)   First false alarm in a twelve (12) month period: Warning letter.
         (b)   Second false alarm in a twelve (12) month period: Two hundred
dollars ($200.00).
         (c)   Each additional false alarm in a twelve (12) month period after
two (2) false alarms shall result in a false fire alarm charge of at least five
hundred dollars ($500.00), with each charge increasing by fifty dollars
($50.00) for each additional false alarm, not to exceed one thousand two
hundred dollars ($1,200.00).
      3.   Out Of Service Alarm: If a fire alarm gives three (3) or more false
fire alarms within a twelve (12) hour period, the Posen fire department
reserves the right to place out of service the fire alarm system and may
require a fire watch at its discretion. Any fire alarm placed out of service
under this section must be repaired and placed back in service within the time
period specified by the Posen fire department.
   (B)   Citations: The chief and/or assistant chief of the fire department
shall be vested with the authority to issue a citation to be served upon the
agent in charge of the property under this section setting forth the date,
time, and place of each offense, the prior offenses within the preceding twelve
(12) month period and the fine due within thirty (30) days after issuance of
the citation.
   (C)   Suspension Of Offense: Within ten (10) days of receipt of a notice of
violation the property or its representative may once during any twelve (12)
month period request a review of the alleged offense and show any cause in
mitigation. The chief and/or assistant chief shall have the right in their
discretion to suspend one violation during a twelve (12) month period for a
property owner or its agent upon a showing that appropriate steps have been
taken to reduce the likelihood of a reoccurrence of the offense. A suspended
offense shall be included in determining the total number of offenses in a
twelve (12) month period under subsection (B) of this section.
   (D)   Reimbursement Of Costs: To the extent permitted by law, the village
fire department shall seek reimbursement for all costs of collection of
delinquent charges under this section not paid to the fire department within
thirty (30) days of the issuance of a billing for said charges. Costs of
collection may include all reasonable attorney fees and court costs incurred by
the Posen fire department in proceedings to the extent permitted by law. (Ord.
94-05, 2-9-1994)
3-2-25: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the members of the fire
department for the uses and purposes of such department, and those specifically
authorized by the director of the village of Posen water department, or his
duly authorized representative, to open any public fire hydrant or attempt to
draw water from the same, or for any person to wilfully or carelessly break,
damage or interfere with any of the public fire hydrants in the Village. (Ord.
88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-26: OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to obstruct the use of any
public fire hydrant, or place any material or vehicle in front thereof, or
within eight feet (8') on either side, a total of sixteen feet (16') thereof at
any curb; said distance to be measured from that point on the curb
perpendicular to the exact location of the public fire hydrant. Any and all
material or any vehicle found to be such an obstruction or within said sixteen
feet (16'), may be immediately removed by the Fire Department, or the Police
Department, and at the risk, cost and expense of the owner or claimant thereof.
(Ord. 2017-07, 7-11-2017)
3-2-27: PARTICIPATION IN STATE TRAINING PROGRAM:
   (A)   The Village of Posen Fire Department hereby elects to participate in
the programs provided for in the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act 1 .
   (B)   Before an individual may commence regular full-time employment as a
firefighter, he or she must be certified by the State Fire Marshal as a
Firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved training course as
provided in such Act.
   (C)   The Firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
his or her probationary period of twelve (12) months.
   (D)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall require that any
person appointed to the Fire Department shall not become a regular member of
the department unless and until he or she successfully completes, pursuant to
such Act, the approved training course within twelve (12) months of the date of
his or her initial employment. (Ord. 92-07, 5-26-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 740/1.
3-2-28: REPORTS TO STATE FIRE MARSHAL; INVESTIGATIONS; ENFORCEMENT OF STATE
LAW:
The Fire Chief shall be responsible for keeping records and for making
necessary reports to the State Fire Marshal. He or she shall assist the Fire
Marshal in any investigation the Fire Marshal deems expedient or necessary to
make. The Chief shall further be responsible for the enforcement of State laws
concerning fire protection. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-29: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
There is hereby established a Bureau of Fire Prevention. It shall consist of
such officers, members, auxiliary members, and employees as are provided for by
ordinance. The bureau shall be under the direction and supervision of the Fire
Chief and all fire inspection work of the bureau shall be under his or her
authority.
The Chief or his or her subordinates within the bureau shall interpret the Fire
Prevention Code of the Village in harmony with the Building Code of the Village
and shall make no requirement inconsistent with or contrary to such Fire
Prevention Code. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-30: APPROVAL OF PLANS:
The Fire Chief or his or her subordinates shall examine the plans of all
proposed buildings, except single-family dwellings, and shall pass on all
questions relating to the safety of life and property from fire. No permit for
such a building shall be issued until such plans are approved by the Chief or
his or her subordinate. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-31: REPAIRS TO EQUIPMENT:
The Fire Chief shall, whenever any fire engine, hose, or other apparatus or
equipment requires immediate emergency repairs to be made, in order to avoid
delay in keeping such equipment ready for immediate service, cause such repairs
to be made. The Chief shall immediately report, in writing, to the President
and Village Board of Trustees, the facts relating to such defective equipment
and the estimated cost of such repairs. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-32: ESTABLISHMENT OF MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT:
   (A)   There is hereby established in and for the Village a mobile intensive
care unit whose membership shall consist of certified emergency medical
technicians/ambulance from the Fire Department, both for regular and auxiliary.
   (B)   Management And Control: The management, supervision and control of the
mobile intensive care unit is hereby vested in the chief, who shall be
responsible for the government, efficiency and good conduct of the members
thereof who shall be considered the head of the unit.
The chief shall have sole control and command over all persons connected with
the unit program of the village. He or she shall have full power to prescribe
and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the members of the
unit, which shall not be inconsistent with the ordinances of the village laws
of the state or the rules and regulations promulgated by the mobile intensive
care unit resource hospital.
   (C)   Codirectors: The chief, in his or her capacity as administrator of the
mobile intensive care unit program, shall appoint directors who are certified
paramedics within the unit and who shall carry out the directives of the chief.
(Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-33: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD:
There is hereby established in and for the village a foreign fire insurance
board (hereafter, "the FFI board").
   (A)   Members: The FFI board shall consist of the fire chief, who shall hold
office by virtue of rank, and six (6) members. There shall be an election by
all the members of the Posen fire department to elect these six (6) additional
members to the FFI board. Together, these seven (7) shall make up the FFI
board.
   (B)   Election: Elections shall take place in April of each year, beginning
on April 9, 2012. Members elected at the first election shall serve either one
or two (2) years. Three (3) 1-year term members and three (3) 2-year term
members shall be elected on April 9, 2012. Thereafter, the term of each member
elected in April of 2013 shall be for one year. Starting with the election in
April of 2014, the term of each member elected shall be for two (2) years. All
members of the fire department shall be eligible to be elected as officers of
the FFI board. After the election of the six (6) members to the FFI board,
those members shall then elect the following officers: chairman and treasurer.
   (C)   Treasurer: The treasurer of the FFI board shall give a sufficient bond
to the village conditioned upon the faithful performance by the treasurer of
his or her duties under this section and the rules and regulations provided for
below. The president of the board of trustees of Posen shall approve said bond.
The treasurer of the FFI board shall receive the appropriated money and shall
pay out the money upon the order of the board for the maintenance, use, and
benefit of the department. These funds shall be audited as part of the annual
Posen audit, to verify that the funds have been expended by the FFI board only
for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the Posen fire department.
   (D)   Rules And Regulations: The FFI board shall make all needful rules and
regulations with respect to the management of the FFI board. All such rules and
regulations promulgated by the FFI board must be passed by the affirmative vote
of at least a majority of the FFI board. (Ord. 2012-11, 8-28-2012)
3-2-34: TREASURER:
There is hereby created the office of treasurer of the fire department. The
treasurer of the fire department shall be appointed by the village president
and by and with the consent of the village board of trustees; said treasurer of
the fire department to hold such office for the term of one year and until his
successor is appointed and certified. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-35: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE:
It shall be the duty of all members of the fire department to see that the
provisions of this code relating to the authority, functions, and duties of the
fire department are enforced and to that end all such members are hereby vested
with the power and authority of police officers in the enforcement of this
chapter; provided, however, that they shall not be subject to the statutory
requirements or privileges of the regular members of the police department or
be entitled to any additional compensation. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-36: PENALTIES:
Wherever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful, or an offense or the doing of any act is required, or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this chapter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction the violator shall be punished by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for not less than thirty (30) days nor more than
one hundred eighty (180) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each ten (10) days the prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-37: PUBLICATION:
The village clerk is directed to publish this chapter in booklet form for
attachment to this code. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-38: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect after its passage and approval
by law. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
3-2-39: SAVINGS CLAUSE:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the
remainder of this chapter, or the application of such section, paragraph,
clause or provisions to persons or circumstances other than those as to which
it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 88-15, 4-12-1988)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-3-1: Combined Departments
3-3-2: Jurisdiction
3-3-3: Superintendent; Duties
3-3-4: Bond
3-3-5: Compensation
3-3-6: Monthly Report
3-3-7: Books of Account
3-3-8: Money Remitted
3-3-9: Duties
3-3-1: COMBINED DEPARTMENTS:
The Water Works System and the Sewerage System in the Village shall be
maintained and operated together as a combined' Water Works and Sewerage
System, and hereinafter in this Chapter where the term Department is used, it
shall be considered to mean the combined Water and Sewer Department, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
A charge shall be made to the residents of the Village which shall be
reasonable for the use and service of such Water Works and Sewerage System, and
such charges or rates for that purpose shall be established, and such rates
shall be sufficient to pay the costs, maintenance, operation, depreciation and
payment of the principal and interest on any revenue bonds that may be issued
by the Village for the construction, installation, repairing and improving of
said combined System.
3-3-2: JURISDICTION:
The Water Department under the direction of the Superintendent and such other
officers and employees as may be from time to time lawfully appointed, shall
have the supervision, management and control, subject to the President and
Board, of the maintenance, enlargement and operation of the combined Water
Works and Sewerage System owned and controlled by the Village, the procuring
and selling of water, and all matters and things connected with the operation,
maintenance and extension of said combined Water Works and Sewerage System, and
preserving the property belonging thereto.
3-3-3: SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES:
There shall be a Superintendent of the Department to be appointed by the
President and Board, who shall have supervision over all buildings and
equipment used in the furnishing of water in the Village and shall see that the
object and purposes of the Water Department are carried out, and that the
combined Water Works and Sewerage System is conducted on an economical,
business like basis, and for this purpose it shall be the duty of the
Superintendent and all of the officers, employees and servants of said
Department to enforce all the provisions of this Chapter and to observe and
obey and carry out the orders and directions of the Board. Where the streets
are required to be opened for repairs or extensions, the Superintendent of
Streets for the protection of the public against accidents during such repairs
and extensions, shall be cooperated with. He shall prepare and keep in his
office a complete atlas of the Water Works and Sewerage System, with all
valves, hydrants, water service connections and other appurtenances distinctly
recorded therein.
3-3-4: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Superintendent of the
Department shall execute a bond to the Village, in the penal sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Trustees, conditioned as prescribed by law.
3-3-5: COMPENSATION:
The Superintendent and other officers and employees of the Department shall
receive as compensation for their services, amounts to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees.
3-3-6: MONTHLY REPORT:
The Superintendent shall, upon the first of each and every month, or more often
if required, submit a report in writing to the President and Board of Trustees
of all moneys collected by him, the account whereon collected, and of any and
all other matters connected with his office.
3-3-7: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:
The Superintendent shall keep, or cause to be kept, full and complete books of
accounts, showing in detail all moneys received by him, with dates and sources,
and all matters pertaining to his office in a clear and methodical manner. He
shall also keep such books as the President and Board ma direct. All such
books, accounts and papers pertaining to said office shad at all times be open
to the inspection of the President and Board or any member of a committee
thereof.
3-3-8: MONEY REMITTED:
The Superintendent shall monthly and more often if required by the President
and Board, pay over to the Treasurer all moneys collected by him from any
source whatever, taking such Treasurer's receipt in duplicate therefor, one of
which receipts he shall immediately file with the Clerk. He is expressly
prohibited from keeping the moneys of the Village in his hands, or in the hands
of any person to his use. Any violation of this provision shall subject him to
immediate removal from office.
3-3-9: DUTIES:
The Superintendent, or such officer or employees of the Department as he shall
direct, shall read water meters, collect the water rates, issue water permits
and shall perform such other duties as now are, or may hereafter be imposed
upon him by law or the Code of this Village.
CHAPTER 4
POLICE PENSION FUND
SECTION:
3-4-1: Fund Established
3-4-2: Pension Board; Members
3-4-3: Pension Fund; Separate Account
3-4-4: Pension Fund; Reserve
3-4-1: FUND ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a Police Pension Fund established in the Village, as provided by
law.
3-4-2: PENSION BOARD; MEMBERS:
The Board of Trustees of the said Fund shall consist of five (5) members, two
(2) appointed by the Village President, and two (2) elected by the members of
the Police Department, and one elected by the beneficiaries of the Pension
Fund. Until one member of the Board qualifies by virtue of being a beneficiary
of the Fund, the Board shall consist of four (4) members aforesaid. The
elections shall be held on the third Monday in April, and the term of each
member shall be two (2) years. The Pension Board shall meet at least quarterly
as provided by law, and shall hold such additional meetings as may be called by
the President of the Pension Board.
3-4-3: PENSION FUND; SEPARATE ACCOUNT:
The money in the Police Pension Fund shall be held in a separate account by the
Village Treasurer, as provided by Statute. This Fund shall consist of the
deductions from the pay of policemen subject to the Act, as provided by
Statute; and there shall be annually levied a tax sufficient to enable the
Police Pension Fund to meet all its obligations.
3-4-4: PENSION FUND; RESERVE:
There shall be established and maintained a reserve in the Police Pension Fund,
as required by Statute. This reserve shall be built up to an amount of at least
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for each policeman and each beneficiary
entitled to the protection of the Pension Fund, and sufficient tax shall be
levied for the benefit of the Pension Fund to build this reserve up to the
required amount within the forty (40) years following July 17, 1959, as
prescribed in Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 1081/2, paragraph 3-127. (1-
28-69)
CHAPTER 5
FIREMEN'S PENSION FUND
SECTION:
3-5-1: Fund Established
3-5-2: Pension Board Members
3-5-3: Pension Fund Accounts
3-5-1: FUND ESTABLISHED:
The Firemen's Pension Fund is hereby established pursuant to, and in accordance
with, the provisions of Article 4, Chapter 1081/2, of the Illinois Revised
Statutes, 1977, "An Act to create a firemen's pension fund in . . . villages .
. . having a population of not less than 5,000 nor more than 200,000
inhabitants", as amended, as applicable to full time firemen.
3-5-2: PENSION BOARD MEMBERS:
As provided by law, the Board of Trustees of the Firemen's Pension Fund shall
consist of nine (9) members: The Village President, the Village Clerk, the
Village Attorney, the Village Treasurer, the Fire Chief, three (3) active
firemen, and one retired fireman. The duties and responsibilities of said
Pension Board members shall be as further provided by law.
3-5-3: PENSION FUND ACCOUNTS:
The money in the Firemen's Pension Fund shall be held in a separate account by
the Village Treasurer, as provided by Statute. This Fund shall consist of the
deductions from the pay of firemen subject to the Act, and there shall be
annually levied a tax sufficient to enable the Firemen's Pension Fund to meet
all its obligations, as further provided by Statute. (Ord. 78-2, 4-11-78)
TITLE IV
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Births (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-2: Sore Eyes At Birth (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-3: Burial Reports; Permits (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-4: Vital Statistics (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-5: Vaccination (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-6: Inspection Of Schools
4-1-7: Jurisdiction Over Schools
4-1-8: Refuse, Garbage, Receptacles; Specifications
4-1-9: Refuse, Garbage; Location
4-1-10: Unwholesome Food (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-11: Sanitary Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-12: Drinking Cups
4-1-13: Towels In Public Places
4-1-14: Premises
4-1-15: Acts
4-1-16: Serving Food (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-17: Refuse
4-1-18: Privy Vaults (Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-19: Raising Or Slaughtering Poultry Or Animals
4-1-20: Low Lands
4-1-21: Building Restrictions On Low Lands
4-1-22: Apartment, Commercial And Industrial Buildings; Garbage And Refuse
Removal
4-1-23: Refuse Disposal Enclosures And Receptacles
4-1-24: Garbage Collection Charges
4-1-25: Garbage Bill
4-1-26: Roll-Off Construction Dumpster
4-1-1: BIRTHS:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-2: SORE EYES AT BIRTH:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-3: BURIAL REPORTS; PERMITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-4: VITAL STATISTICS:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-5: VACCINATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-6: INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS:
The Health Officer shall make regular inspection of all school buildings at
least once a year as to their hygienic condition and shall report the result of
such inspection to the Board of Trustees and to the Board of Education having
charge and control of such schools, with instructions as to remedy of
conditions (if any such be found), whereby the health of those in attendance
may be impaired or life endangered. In the event that said health official
deems it advisable to close any public or private school or schools, he shall
report his recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees, and if they
deem it advisable they shall order said school or schools closed for such
period of time as may be necessary. (1965 Code)
4-1-7: JURISDICTION OVER SCHOOLS:
The Board of Health shall have jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to the
preservation of the health of those in attendance, upon the public and private
schools, to which end it is hereby made the duty of said Board of Health: To
require that all persons attending said schools either as teachers or pupils
shall have complied with the order of the State Board of Health concerning
vaccination; to exclude from such schools any person suffering with a
contagious or infectious disease, or any person liable to convey such disease
among those in attendance, and to require and compel the vaccination of pupils
when necessary. (1965 Code)
4-1-8: REFUSE, GARBAGE, RECEPTACLES; SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of every owner and occupant of a residential home, house,
apartment or building to maintain in good condition, at all times, garbage and
refuse receptacles in sufficient quantity to accommodate the normal refuse
storage needs of each aforementioned structure.
Each receptacle shall be watertight, have a tightfitting cover, and be made of
metal, and/or polyethylene, and/or rubber, and shall not exceed thirty two (32)
gallons in capacity, except that garbage receptacles provided by the waste
service authorized by the village, may exceed thirty two (32) gallons in
capacity.
Use of polyethylene bags outside of an approved receptacle is prohibited for
use of garbage.
The use of blue polyethylene bags is approved for the containment of
recyclables, i.e., plastic, glass, paper, aluminum, etc. Brown or tan paper
leaf bags are approved for yard waste. (Ord. 2003-02, 4-22-2003)
4-1-9: REFUSE, GARBAGE; LOCATION:
No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street, alley or
public way and no such refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown about or
scattered by the wind.
Containers as specified in section
4-1-8 of this chapter shall be kept on the principal building premises (inside
owners' property lines), except when it is necessary to place them in the
parkway or alley for collection. They shall be placed in the parkway or alley,
whichever is the principal collection point, not prior to six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. the day preceding collection and shall be removed from the parkway or
alley not later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. the day of collection 1 . (Ord.
86-24, 10-14-1986)
 
Notes
  1. As to existing locations which are currently in compliance with the
1 existing codes, this section shall be in full force and in effect as of April
  15, 1987.
4-1-10: UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-11: SANITARY REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-12: DRINKING CUPS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain any common drinking cup, dipper or other
similar utensils for the use of more than one person in any public hall,
theater, store or other place frequented by the public. (1965 Code)
4-1-13: TOWELS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain in or about any public lavatory or washroom
any towel for common use. The term "common use" as used in this section shall
be construed to mean for use by more than one person. (1965 Code)
4-1-14: PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure or place to be or remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any
such building, structure or place is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1965
Code)
4-1-15: ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health
or results in discomfort to the public. (1965 Code)
4-1-16: SERVING FOOD:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-17: REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the village any
uncovered pile of refuse, garbage, offal, or the carcass of any dead animal.
Such refuse must be disposed of properly. Any uncovered pile of refuse is
hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-9-2004)
4-1-18: PRIVY VAULTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
4-1-19: RAISING OR SLAUGHTERING POULTRY OR ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or raise any cattle, hogs, sheep or
poultry, or any such animal which can be used for food purposes, within three
hundred feet (300') of any residence or school. It shall be unlawful to
slaughter or kill any poultry or fowl or use any house, place or building in
which the business of slaughtering such poultry or fowl may be carried on in
the village, unless such house, place or building is not less than three
hundred feet (300') from any residence or school. (1965 Code)
4-1-20: LOW LANDS:
All low, swampy, boggy or undrained lands within the Village limits are hereby
declared to be unsanitary and unfit for residential buildings. Building thereon
is hereby prohibited, except as hereinafter provided. (1965 Code)
4-1-21: BUILDING RESTRICTIONS ON LOW LANDS:
No residential building shall be erected or permit issued for the erection
thereof by the Village upon any land within the Village limits which the Health
Officer shall reasonably find to be of the character described in section
4-1-20 of this chapter; unless, upon application by the owner of such land to
the Board of Trustees, said Board, by resolution, shall determine that the
finding of the Health Officer is incorrect. (1965 Code)
4-1-22: APARTMENT, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS; GARBAGE AND REFUSE
REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful for the owners and occupants of:
   (A)   Apartment buildings and apartment hotels, as defined in title XI,
chapter 5 of this Code,
   (B)   Business establishments, as defined in title XI, chapter 6 of this
Code,
   (C)   Industrial buildings, as defined in title XI, chapter 7 of this Code,
and
   (D)   Special use facilities, as defined in title XI, chapter 9A of this
Code,
to permit the deposit or accumulation of refuse and/or garbage, as defined in
this chapter, and the applicable provisions thereof, in, on, upon, or at the
subject buildings, premises, establishments, and/or facilities; and the said
owners and occupants shall remove and dispose of said refuse and garbage by
private scavengers licensed in the Village as provided by chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 1982-5, 3-9-1982)
4-1-23: REFUSE DISPOSAL ENCLOSURES AND RECEPTACLES:
All exterior areas of food service, retail food, mini-mart establishments and
apartment buildings where garbage and refuse are stored shall be enclosed by a
metal, wood or stone privacy fence, including doors or gates thereto. Such
fence shall be not less than nor exceed five feet (5') in height. Waste
receptacles shall be large enough to handle the capacity of waste accumulated
from the establishment with no overflow of the container. Receptacles must have
tight fitting lids or covers to repel water and lids shall remain closed at all
times. The area must remain clean of waste materials in order to assist in the
control of nuisance pest/rodents. (Ord. 86-27, 10-28-1986, eff. 4-15-1987; amd.
Ord. 2020-20, 7-14-2020)
4-1-24: GARBAGE COLLECTION CHARGES:
The Village Board shall establish the charges for single-family, residential
garbage collection and disposal service within the Village. Garbage collection
and disposal service shall not be furnished to buildings containing multiple
dwellings over two (2) units, and any commercial, industrial or business
establishments and the owners of such buildings shall make private arrangements
for the collection and disposal of garbage, refuse and waste in a sanitary
manner. (Ord. 87-8, 6-9-1987)
4-1-25: GARBAGE BILL:
The charges shall be monthly, but at the discretion of the Village Board shall
be billed quarterly and may be included as a separate item on each water bill
rendered by the Village. In the case of such billing the holder of each water
account shall be billed for the number of family units being serviced through
that account. The charge herein provided shall be for a weekly collection of,
up to one cubic yard of containerized debris, and properly bundled branches.
(Ord. 87-8, 6-9-1987)
4-1-26: ROLL-OFF CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER:
Any drop off/roll-off construction dumpster used on a temporary basis for
construction, roofing, concrete removal, remodeling, clean-up, landscaping or
other uses shall be placed on private property only. If such placement is
impossible or impractical, placement of the construction dumpster on the street
will be allowed but must be approved by the Building Department. Any
construction dumpster that is placed on the street must be protected from
approaching traffic from either direction such as cones or barricades and will
only be allowed to be placed there for the maximum of thirty (30) days only. It
is the obligation of the owner of the property, any contractor using the
construction dumpster and the owner of the construction dumpster to make sure
this section is complied with. (Ord. 2018-24, 10-9-2018)
CHAPTER 2
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 3
SEPTIC TANKS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Prohibition
4-3-1: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, maintain, install or have a septic
tank within the corporate limits of the Village. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Permit; Fees
4-4--1a: Connection To Property Outside Corporate Limits
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Inspections
4-4-4: Connections
4-4-5: Separate Connections
4-4-6: Manholes At Angles
4-4-7: Sewer Pipe; Sizes; Laying Of
4-4-8: Garage Drainage
4-4-9: Storm; Surface Water
4-4-10: Street Openings
4-4-11: Overhead Plumbing
4-4-12: Footing Drains
4-4-13: Sewer Service Charges; Reconnection Fees; Procedures For Payment,
Delinquency, Penalty And Appeal
4-4-14: Liens For Delinquency
4-4-1: PERMIT; FEES:
No person shall dispose of or cause the disposal of any sewage from any
location within the village by means or source other than through the general
sewage system of the village. No house drain or private sanitary sewer for
connection to the general sewerage system of the village shall be laid, any
excavation under or around any sewer be made, nor shall anyone lay, alter or
disturb any part of any sewer or drain connected with any sewer belonging to
the village, without first having obtained a written permit from the village
board of trustees and village president for such work. The fees to be charged
for a permit to make such connection to any sewer shall be: (Ord. 2002-27, 12-
10-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
   (A)   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for all connections to be made
within the corporate limits of the village, plus the customary municipal
engineering service fees for other than residential connections requiring
approval of the metropolitan sanitary district (MSD). (Ord. 2002-27, 12-10-
2002)
   (B)   As determined by the village board of trustees and village president
for all connections not within the corporate limits after written request by
the applicant for said permit; provided, that no permit shall issue when the
village board of trustees and village president have determined that said
connection is not in the best interests of the village, its residents,
businesses, industries and current users, by reason of the additional burden,
use and load that may be placed upon the existing sewer system by further
connections outside the village limits.
   (C)   It shall be the sole duty of the applicant or owner to maintain any
said house drain or lateral sewer line or private sanitary sewer or connection
subsequent to the installation of same, and all costs and expenses incidental
to such maintenance shall be borne solely by the applicant or owner, and not by
the village.
   (D)   When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the provisions of
the ordinances of the village, a permit shall then be issued by the village
clerk authorizing the connection to be made. (Ord. 88-12, 3-22-1988)
4-4-1a: CONNECTION TO PROPERTY OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
4-4-1 of this chapter as to fees and charges for connection to the general
sewerage system of the village, where the connection to be made will be for the
benefit of property lying outside the corporate limits of the village, the
person or persons desiring to make said connection of the village's sewerage
system, or have the use thereof, shall first make application to the office of
the village clerk upon a blank form furnished by the village. Said applications
shall contain an agreement on the part of the applicant, that all the rules,
regulations, conditions and provisions of all ordinances of the village shall
be complied with; that all fees, deposits, sewerage rates, charges, rents, and
all fines and penalties assessed, charged or imposed against said application
will be paid. The fees to be charged for a permit to make such connection to
any sewer shall be:
   (A)   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for all connections to residences
outside the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   As determined by the village board of trustees and village president
for all connections not within the corporate limits after written request by
the applicant for said permit; provided, that no permit shall be issued when
the village board of trustees and village president have determined that said
connection is not in the best interests of the village, its residents,
businesses, industries, and current users, by reason of the additional burden,
use and load that may be placed upon the existing sewer system by further
connection outside the village limits.
When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the provisions of the
ordinances of the village, a permit shall then be issued by the village clerk
authorizing the connection to be made. (Ord. 86-13, 6-24-1986)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them; unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
HOUSE: Shall also include any store building, apartment building or other
principal structure upon any parcel of land.
HOUSE SEWER SYSTEM: Any system of sewers which carries sanitary sewerage from
any house, apartment building, business place, hospital or other building in
the village.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer or drain for the drainage of water closets, sinks,
laundry tubs, bathtubs and similar fixtures.
STORM WATER SEWER: A sewer or drain for the drainage of roofs, lands,
foundations and surface water. (1965 Code)
4-4-3: INSPECTIONS:
A written notice of intention to make a connection with a public sewer shall be
filed at the office of the Building Commissioner at least twenty four (24)
hours (exclusive of Sundays and holidays) before such connection is made. Every
such connection shall be left uncovered until it has been inspected and
approved by the Building Commissioner or an inspector from his office.
4-4-4: CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   The connection between the soil or waste pipe and the vitrified tile
sewer extending to the public sewer shall be constructed with Portland cement
mortar, made with one part cement and two (2) parts clean sharp sand.
An orifice or other proper opening shall be provided in the wall for the house
drain to prevent damage by settlement. The opening around the house drain may
be filled with pure refined asphaltum.
   (B)   All connections between metal pipes, and between metal pipe and sewer
tile, shall be made by a licensed plumber and in such manner as the Building
Commissioner shall direct.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, the house sewer shall connect with the public
sewer by means of "Y" junctions in the public sewer left for such purpose. If
such "Y" junction is not available, a break may be made in the public sewer for
the house sewer connection, and such connection shall be made tight and
supported by brick and Portland cement mortar in a manner satisfactory to the
Building Commissioner; provided, however, that when the public sewer is of
vitrified tile eight inches (8") or less in diameter, no break shall be made,
but a length of pipe shall be removed and a "Y" substituted therefor to which
the house sewer shall connect.
   (D)   Direct connection of a house sewer to a manhole or catch basin on a
public sewer is prohibited unless the written permission of the Building
Commissioner is first obtained.
   (E)   In every case, connection of any kind with the public sewer shall be
made under the supervision of and in a manner satisfactory to the Building
Commissioner.
4-4-5: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Every building shall be separately and independently connected by a
separate house service sewer pipe with a public sewer, when there is any such
sewer adjoining the lot or parcel of land on which such building is erected.
   (B)   The entire plumbing and drainage system of every building shall be
entirely separate and independent from that of any other building, except that
two (2) buildings may be connected with the same stub on the public sewer by
means of a manhole in the parkway, in such manner as the Building Commissioner
may direct.
4-4-6: MANHOLES AT ANGLES:
Where it is necessary to make a change in the direction of the house sewer
between the building and the public sewer, such change of direction shall be
made by means of a manhole to be constructed as the Building Commissioner shall
direct. All manholes and gravel basins shall be constructed of concrete, either
monolithic or block, composed by volume of one part Portland cement, two (2)
parts sand and four (4) parts gravel or crushed stone, mixed with sufficient
water. They shall be circular in section, with an interior diameter of three
feet (3') except that the top shall be drawn into two feet (2') beginning at a
point three feet (3') below the top, so as to fit and support the cover. The
walls of such manhole or gravel basin shall be four inches (4") in thickness if
built monolithic, or five inches (5") if built of blocks with full joints of
mortar composed of one part Portland cement to two (2) parts of sharp clean
sand, mixed with sufficient water. Each manhole or gravel basin shall be
provided with a six inch (6") concrete floor with the invert, if any, molded
smoothly in the concrete or formed of sections of vitrified pipe imbedded in
the concrete. Each said manhole or gravel basin shall be provided with a cast
iron cover and cast iron or concrete frame. The floor of all gravel basins
shall be three feet (3') below the flow line of the outlet.
4-4-7: SEWER PIPE; SIZES; LAYING OF:
   (A)   Sewer pipe for the house sewers shall conform to the A.S.C.E.
standards.
   (B)   Pipe for both sanitary and storm water house sewers shall be at least
six inches (6") in diameter. Where larger capacity is required, sewers shall be
of a size which the Building Commissioner may consider adequate.
   (C)   House sewers shall be laid on solid ground or supported so as to
prevent settlement or breakage in a manner satisfactory to the Building
Commissioner.
   (D)   All sanitary house sewers shall be laid with joints made as follows:
A strand of oakum long enough to circle the pipe and lap over two inches (2")
and at least three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter shall be soaked in neat
cement grout, and wrapped around the spigot end of pipe. A bed of mortar
composed of one part lime, two (2) parts cement, and four (4) parts clean sharp
sand shall be laid in the bottom half of the preceding bell, and the spigot end
of the above prepared pipe inserted to its final position. After the oakum has
been calked tightly into place so as to make a smooth joint with no break on
the inside of the pipe, the remaining joint space shall be filled with mortar
composed as above, calked and again filled to form a fillet in front of the
bell.
   (E)   House sewers shall be laid with a fall toward the main sewer of not
less than one-fourth inch (1/4") per running foot where practicable. In case it
is found necessary to deviate from such grade, the manner of construction shall
be decided by the Building Commissioner.
4-4-8: GARAGE DRAINAGE:
Floor drains of garages shall be connected with the sanitary sewer system. Such
drains shall have intercepting grease traps approved by the Building
Commissioner. (1965 Code)
4-4-9: STORM; SURFACE WATER:
   (A)   It is the purpose of this Section that the entry of extraneous flows
into the sanitary sewer system be prohibited and be discontinued, where such
entry may be occurring accidentally or knowingly. Extraneous flows are those
flows, other than domestic sewage or industrial waste, consisting of ground
waters, surface waters, storm waters and other drainage or clear waters.
   (B)   Discharge or Connection:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the Village any
ground waters, surface waters, storm waters or any other extraneous flows.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to make a connection or to maintain or operate
a connection which serves any home, building or any other establishment,
premises or facilities, and which contributes, directly or indirectly, to the
sanitary sewer of the Village, any ground waters, surface waters, storm waters
or any other extraneous flows.
   (C)   All drains or connections designed or intended to receive and
discharge ground waters, surface waters, storm waters and other drainage, shall
be considered illegal connections if they discharge directly or indirectly into
the sanitary sewer system. Such illegal connections include, but are not
limited to, roof drains, downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains, drain
tiles (and sump pumps used to collect and discharge same). Yard drains and such
connections shall not be allowed to discharge directly or indirectly into the
sanitary sewers.
   (D)   The proper maintenance and operation of a building service sewer,
house connection or sanitary sewer line to the point of connection to the
Municipal sanitary sewer system shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
premises served by said sanitary sewer pipes. Maintenance means keeping the
sanitary sewer connection, sewer lines or other sewer facilities or structures
in satisfactory working condition and good state of repair (including but not
limited to preventing any obstruction or extraneous materials or flows from
entering said facilities, protecting said facilities from any damage and
keeping same free from defects or malfunctions), and making necessary
provisions and taking necessary precautions to assure that said sewer
facilities are at all times capable of satisfactorily performing the services
and adequately discharging the functions and producing the final results and
purposes said facilities are intended to perform, discharge, or produce.
   (E)   All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or
drainage ditches. Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and discharge
shall be made onto the ground surface or drainage ditches. Sump pumps installed
to receive and discharge ground waters or other storm waters shall discharge
into a drainage ditch or onto ground surfaces. (Sump pumps installed to receive
and discharge floor drain flow, laundry tubs, or other sanitary sewerage shall
be connected to the sanitary sewers.) A sump pump shall be used for the
discharge of storm waters only. A second sump pump or ejector pump shall be
used for sanitary sewerage.
   (F)   Inspections: At no expense to the property owner/occupant, the Village
will make visual outside inspections of all properties within the Village, with
specific attention to downspouts, roof drains and other visible or outside
connections, and the Village, upon notice, will enter into the premises and
make or assist in the making of additional inspections of the premises to
ascertain if illegal connections are present. Upon completion of the visual
outside or inside inspection, the Village will advise the property owner/
occupant in writing if any illegal connections are observed. After the
corrections are made, the Village will make further inspections of the
corrections to insure compliance with this Section.
   (G)   Within thirty (30) days after notice to the property owner/occupant by
the Village of the presence of illegal connections, the property owner/occupant
shall, at his expense, disconnect all illegal connections observed and all
discharges of extraneous flows into the sanitary sewer system, directly or
indirectly, shall be discontinued.
   (H)   In addition to visual inspections on the outside or the inside of the
premises as indicated in paragraph (F) above, the Village may make other tests
and inspections of the Municipal sewer systems as it deems necessary in order
to locate such illegal connections and sources of extraneous flows as may
exist. The Village, at its option, may also invoke other legal powers vested in
it or implied by the public, or institute such legal action as it deems
necessary to discover and order the disconnection of any illegal connections
that may exist.
   (I)   Failure on the part of the property owner/occupant to comply with the
provisions of this Section shall be considered a violation which, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day shall constitute
a separate violation. (Ord. 88-06, 2-23-88)
4-4-10: STREET OPENINGS:
The provisions of title V of this code shall apply to any street openings made
in connection with sewer work. (1965 Code)
4-4-11: OVERHEAD PLUMBING:
All new buildings with basements, floors or occupancy areas below ground level
at the building site and served by a public sewer shall have overhead plumbing.
(3-9-71)
4-4-12: FOOTING DRAINS:
No footing drains nor drainage the shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
Footing drains shall only be connected to sump pumps in order that discharge
will be only into storm sewers, combined sewers or drainage ditches. (3-9-71)
4-4-13: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES; RECONNECTION FEES; PROCEDURES FOR PAYMENT,
DELINQUENCY, PENALTY AND APPEAL:
   (A)   Sewer Service Charges:
      1.   Rates: The following rates for the village's provision of sewer
service to a person who receives sewer service from the village are hereby
imposed:
         (a)   One dollar seventy cents ($1.70) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons of water transmitted to a person receiving sewer service from the
village at a location within the corporate limits of the village;
         (b)   Two dollars fifty five cents ($2.55) for each one thousand
(1,000) gallons of water transmitted to a person receiving sewer service from
the village at a location outside of the corporate limits of the village.
      2.   Minimum Charges:
         (a)   During each monthly billing cycle, each person under the age of
sixty five (65) years who receives sewer service from the village shall pay a
minimum charge of five dollars ten cents ($5.10) for that service.
         (b)   During each monthly billing cycle, each person over the age of
sixty five (65) years who receives sewer service from the village shall not be
required to pay any minimum charge for that service.
   (B)   Billing: Sewer rate and minimum charges to a structure imposed
pursuant to this section shall be billed simultaneous with bills for charges
imposed pursuant to this code for the village's provision of water service to
that structure. Payment for such bills for the village's provision of sewer
service to a structure shall be due on the due date for payment of the bill for
the village's provision of water service to that structure.
   (C)   Reconnection Fees; Procedures Relating To Late Payment, Delinquencies,
Penalties, Appeals And Liens: Title 5, chapter 2A of this code shall govern
reconnection fees, late payment, delinquency, penalty, appeal and lien issues
related to charges for the village's provision of sewer service. (Ord. 2004-20,
6-22-2004)
4-4-14: LIENS FOR DELINQUENCY:
See section
5-2A-6-1 of this code. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
CHAPTER 5
MILK
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definition
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Application
4-6-4: License Fee
4-6-5: Removal by Village
4-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "private scavenger" is hereby defined to mean any person engaged in
the removal and disposal of table refuse or animal and vegetable matter usually
known as garbage, from hotels, restaurants, cafes, boarding houses, and other
places not otherwise provided for by the Village.
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of private scavenger, or shall be
permitted to remove and dispose of swill, offal, table refuse usually known as
garbage, or any other matter enumerated in the preceding section, without first
having obtained a license to do so.
4-6-3: APPLICATION:
An application for a private scavenger's license shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. (1965 Code)
4-6-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for each private scavenger's license shall be as designated in
Title VII,
Chapter 46, Section 4 of the Posen Village Code. (Ord. 87-6, 5-27-86)
4-6-5: REMOVAL BY VILLAGE:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to conflict with any existing or
future provisions of this Code, concerning the removal and disposal of dirt,
filth, litter, garbage, ashes, manure, offal, swill, dead animals, and other
material from the public ways by the Village through its contractors or
otherwise.
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RELEASE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Prohibited Acts
4-7-3: Response Authority
4-7-4: Liability For Costs
4-7-5: Defenses
4-7-6: Costs And Penalties
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
COSTS: All expenses incurred by the Village of Posen Fire Department or any
other public agency assisting the Fire Department as a result of any removal or
remedial action.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft. Also
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, substance or mixture of materials or
substances which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or
radioactive including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is
designated a hazardous material pursuant to the "Hazardous Materials
Transportation Act" (49 USCA, sections 1801 et seq.) in a quantity and form
which may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
property or the environment when improperly released, treated, stored,
transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by the Fire Department or any other public agency
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, including, but not limited to, the
District II Mutual Aid Agreement.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assign.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing of a hazardous material
into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead of,
or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or minimize
the release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches, or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of released
hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse, diversion,
destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or replacement of leaking
containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on-site treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate water supplies, and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that such actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor,
assess, and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials,
the disposal of removed material, or the taking of such action as may be
necessary to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or
welfare of the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security
fencing, provision of alternative water supplies, and temporary evacuation of
threatened individuals.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action. (Ord. 97-12, 9-9-1997)
4-7-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other State
or Federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release
in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health, property or the environment. (Ord. 97-12, 9-9-1997)
4-7-3: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his authorized representative shall have authority
to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous materials within
the territory of the Fire Department or affecting the public water supply,
wells or sewage treatment works located within the Fire Department or pursuant
to any lawful intergovernmental agreement of which the Fire Department is a
party. This authority includes, but is not limited to, remedial action or
removal.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have primary authority to respond to any release
or threatened release of hazardous materials as described above. The Fire Chief
shall report any release or threatened release of hazardous materials to all
appropriate Federal, State and local public health, safety and emergency
agencies within twenty four (24) hours of any substantial release of hazardous
materials. The Fire Chief shall relinquish his response authority at such time,
if any, as the Federal, State or local public health, safety or emergency
agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened release has
assumed responsibility for response to the release or threatened release.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, during such time as response authority is vested in
him, shall be authorized to utilize all district personnel and equipment and he
may, in his sole discretion, take such remedial or removal action as he may
deem necessary or appropriate to respond to the release or threatened release
of hazardous materials.
   (D)   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the Fire Chief or other person then exercising response authority
under this Chapter until such time as the person exercising such response
authority has determined that the response is complete or responsibility for
response is assumed by the Federal, State or local public health, safety or
emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened
release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this Chapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other Federal, State or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials. (Ord. 97-12, 9-9-1997)
4-7-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to the
defenses set forth in Section
4-7-5 of this Chapter, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the Fire
Department as a result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous
material:
   (A)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material.
   (B)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous materials.
   (C)   Any person who contracted, agreement, or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous substances.
   (D)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of such hazardous substances. (Ord.
97-12, 9-9-1997)
4-7-5: DEFENSES:
There shall be no liability under Section
4-7-4 of this Chapter for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial threat of release
of a hazardous material and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely
by:
   (A)   An act of nature over which he or she had no control;
   (B)   An act of war; or
   (C)   Any combination of the foregoing. (Ord. 97-12, 9-9-1997)
4-7-6: COSTS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who is liable for the release or threatened release of a
hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for or provide
removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and request of
the Fire Department, or in accordance with any order of any court having
jurisdiction on the matter, shall be liable to the Fire Department for any
costs incurred by the Fire Department as a result of such failure to provide or
take such removal or remedial action, together with the cost of any removal or
remedial action taken by the Fire Department in accordance with this Chapter,
and all attorney fees and related legal costs incurred in connection therewith.
   (B)   In addition, any such person shall be guilty of a violation of this
Chapter and shall be fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues. Where such violation is found to be the result of wilful and/or
wanton conduct or gross negligence, or the person committing such violation
attempts to evade responsibility hereunder by leaving the scene of the
occurrence or by other means, that person shall be subject to a fine as
provided for above or a fine in an amount equal to three (3) times the costs,
including attorney fees and legal costs, for which it is liable under
subsection (A) of this Section, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the Fire
Department or any other agency rendering mutual aid shall be as follows:
      1.   The reasonable cost of each vehicle responding as determined by the
responding agency, but in no case less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
hour per vehicle, and
      2.   The cost of all personnel, including any overtime cost to the Fire
Department or to any responding agency, incurred as a result of the removal or
remedial action, and
      3.   The cost of all materials and equipment used, expended, depleted,
destroyed or removed from service in accordance with Federal, State or local
ordinance as a result of the mitigation or containment operations or at the
request of the Fire Department or responding agency.
      4.   The cost of services and/or goods provided by a private or public
entity which are used, expired, depleted, or destroyed as a result of the
response at the request of the Fire Department or any responding agency. (Ord.
97-12, 9-9-1997)
CHAPTER 8
POSEN CLEAN INDOOR AIR ACT
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Purpose
4-8-3: No Smoking Areas
4-8-4: Reasonable Distance
4-8-5: Exemptions
4-8-6: Other No Smoking Areas; Designation
4-8-7: Responsibilities Of Proprietors
4-8-8: Enforcement
4-8-9: Nonretaliation; Nonwaiver Of Rights
4-8-10: Noncompliance And Penalties
4-8-11: Inconsistency
4-8-12: Liberal Construction
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests and patrons on the premises and in which the serving of
food is either not done or is only incidental to the consumption of those
beverages, including, but not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, and cabarets. Incidental shall mean providing less than thirty percent
(30%) of the business's gross annual revenue.
BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
whether for profit or not for profit, or any other business entity, including,
but not limited to, retail businesses and service businesses where goods or
services are sold to the public; and professional corporations, partnerships or
other business entities wherein legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are provided. A business shall
include a "private club", as defined in this section, and any government entity
subject to village of Posen's ordinances.
EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed or contracted by a business in
consideration for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, the owner or
operator of a sole proprietorship or other similar business entity, and any
person who volunteers his or her services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: Any person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, a governmental entity subject to village of
Posen ordinances, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the services of one
or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space in any structure, or portion thereof, located between
a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all sides by walls, windows, doorways
or combinations thereof that extend from the floor to the ceiling.
GAMING EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: As defined in the Illinois gaming board regulations,
title 86, part 3000, section 3000.100 of the Illinois administrative code, a
machine, mechanism, device, or implement which is integral to the operation of
a game or affects the result of a game by determining win or loss, including,
without limitation: electronic, electrical, or mechanical devices or machines;
cards or dice; layouts for live gaming devices; any representative of value
used with any game, including, without limitation, chips, tokens, or electronic
cards; voucher systems; voucher printers; voucher validation terminals;
computer monitoring system; and hardware and software related to any item
described herein.
GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming, and where gaming equipment/supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenues. A gaming facility shall not include a restaurant,
bar, or other public place that has gaming equipment which is merely incidental
to its primary use.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics; nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and
wards within healthcare facilities.
KNOWINGLY OR KNOWING: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in article 4,
section 4-5, of the Illinois criminal code of 1961 1 , now or hereafter
amended.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any enclosed area of a business within the village where
one or more employees are required or permitted by an employer to work in the
course of their employment, including, without limitation, the generality of
the foregoing work areas, private offices, auditoriums, classrooms, conference
and meeting rooms, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, elevators, hallways,
restrooms, and the interior of a motor vehicle or public conveyance. A place of
employment shall include a private club.
PRIVATE CLUB: An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the owner,
lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for club
purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal,
social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for
pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its
operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at an annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 USC section
501.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed area in a building or structure within the village
which members of the public are invited or permitted to visit or use, including
lobbies, hallways, stairways, elevators and other common areas of businesses or
apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives, congregate housing, and other
multiple-unit residential structures, including, without limitation, the
following:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums.
   (B)   Arcades.
   (C)   Bars.
   (D)   Bingo facilities.
   (E)   Bowling alleys.
   (F)   Convention facilities.
   (G)   Daycare centers, nursery schools, elementary schools, high schools,
community colleges, technical training establishments, specialty schools,
colleges and universities.
   (H)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance.
   (I)   Gaming facilities.
   (J)   Government vehicles used for village business such as maintenance
trucks or fleet vehicles. All enclosed vehicles and facilities, including,
without limitation, buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or operated by the
village.
   (K)   Grocery stores.
   (L)   Healthcare facilities, adult care facilities and nursing homes.
   (M)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums and enclosed common areas in trailer parks.
   (N)   Polling places.
   (O)   Private clubs.
   (P)   Public elevators and all retail stores where merchandise is displayed
and offered for sale.
   (Q)   Public meetings.
   (R)   Public transportation facilities under the authority of government
agencies, including, without limitation, buses, trains, taxicabs, and
limousines, and ticket, boarding and waiting areas of public transit stations.
   (S)   Restaurants, including, a bar attached to or within a restaurant.
   (T)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other enclosed
common use areas.
   (U)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including,
without limitation, school buildings, under the control of an agency, board,
commission, committee or council or the village or a political subdivision of
the state, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the
village.
   (V)   Service lines.
   (W)   Shopping malls.
   (X)   Sports arenas, gymnasiums, or recreational areas, including, without
limitation, enclosed places in outdoor arenas.
RESTAURANT: An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. The term "restaurant" shall include a bar
attached to or within the restaurant.
SERVICE LINE: An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange
of money.
SHOPPING MALL: An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to connect
retail or professional establishments.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or
burning cigarette, cigar, pipe, hookah pipe, pipe weed, or other lighted
tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
SPORTS ARENA: A sports pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena,
swimming pool, roller or ice rink, and other similar places where members of
the general public assemble to engage in physical exercise, participate in
athletic competition, or witness sports or other events.
TOBACCO: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to,
any cigar, cigarette, leaf tobacco, pipe tobacco, or tobacco in any of its
forms. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/4-5.
4-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to: a) protect the public health and welfare and
better ensure the ability of citizens to breathe safe and uncontaminated air by
prohibiting smoking in public places and places of employment, b) affirm the
right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke free air, and c) recognize that the need
to breathe smoke free air shall have priority over the desire to smoke. (Ord.
2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-3: NO SMOKING AREAS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any public place or
place of employment within the village of Posen.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any place designated
as a "no smoking area" as provided in this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an employer to knowingly permit smoking in
any enclosed area in any place of employment.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for an employer, owner, occupant or lessee to
knowingly permit smoking in any enclosed area in any place of employment.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for an employer, owner, occupant or lessee, as
the case may be, in control of a public place to fail to post signage or remove
ashtrays, as provided in section
4-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-4: REASONABLE DISTANCE:
Smoking is prohibited within ten feet (10') outside any enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited under this chapter, so as to ensure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the enclosed area through entrances, windows, ventilation
systems, or other means and so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could
constitute a fire hazard in the event of an emergency evacuation of the
building. This section does not prohibit smoking by someone who is driving by
in a car. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The prohibitions on smoking set forth in this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms; provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited under the
provisions of this chapter. The status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may
not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (B)   Private vehicles, not including public transportation facilities or
government vehicles.
   (C)   Private residences or dwelling places except when used as a childcare,
adult daycare, healthcare facility, or any other home based business open to
the public.
   (D)   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed in a smoking room.
   (E)   Any public place or place of employment that is a tobacco dealer,
whose principal business is the sale at retail of tobacco and tobacco related
products; provided that smoke generated by smoking on the premises of the
tobacco dealer does not infiltrate into enclosed areas where smoking is
otherwise prohibited; and no food or liquor license has been granted.
   (F)   Bars.
   (G)   Bingo facilities operated on a nonprofit organization's property for
the benefit of the same nonprofit organization. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff.
2-1-2007)
4-8-6: OTHER NO SMOKING AREAS; DESIGNATION:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of said public
place or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking
is also prohibited provided that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
post conspicuous signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in section
4-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPRIETORS:
Each owner, lessee, occupant, employer or other person in control of a public
place or a place of employment shall be responsible for all of the following:
   (A)   Post conspicuous signs in the enclosed area and the entrance or
vestibule to the public place, place of employment or the building wherein they
are located, as the case may be, bearing the text "No Smoking" or the
international "No Smoking" symbol, which consists of a pictorial representation
of a cigarette enclosed in a circle with a bar across it.
   (B)   Remove ashtrays or other similar containers intended for the deposit
of tobacco ash, cigarettes, cigars or other tobacco products from public
places.
   (C)   Request any person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited
to refrain from smoking, and if the person continues to smoke, request the
person to leave and use other means which may be appropriate to obtain
compliance.
   (D)   Notify employees regarding the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   This chapter shall primarily be enforced by the code enforcement
officers of the village and the Posen police department when necessary to
ensure compliance.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the village of Posen.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the department of public health.
   (D)   The department of public health, the fire department, the department
of building and zoning, the police department, any licensed inspector or their
designees may, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated
inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   An employer, owner, lessee, manager, operator, or employee of an
establishment regulated by this chapter shall inform persons violating this
chapter of the appropriate provisions thereof. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff.
2-1-2007)
4-8-9: NONRETALIATION; NONWAIVER OF RIGHTS:
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-
2007)
4-8-10: NONCOMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who shall violate subsection
4-8-3(A) or (B) of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate subsection
4-8-3(C) or (D) of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation provided that for the
second conviction of any violation of subsection
4-8-3(C) or (D) of this chapter within one year, the fine shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00) and for the third or subsequent conviction of any violation
of subsection
4-8-3(C) or (D) of this chapter within one year, the fine shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Each day during which a violation of subsection
4-8-3(C) or (D) of this chapter continues beyond the specified time for
correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate subsection
4-8-3(E) of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation. Each day during which a violation of
subsection
4-8-3(E) of this chapter continues beyond the specified time for correction
shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
   (D)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violation of
this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment may result in the suspension or revocation
of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the
violation occurred.
   (E)   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the department of public health or its designee by
restraining order, preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means
provided for by law, and the village may take action to recover the costs of
the nuisance abatement.
   (F)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the department of public health or any person aggrieved by the failure
of the employer, owner, occupant, lessee, or other person in control of a
public place or a place of employment, including an operator or manager, to
comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for injunctive relief to
enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2007-02,
1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-11: INCONSISTENCY:
No portion of this chapter shall be deemed to supersede any portion of the
village of Posen fire prevention/safety codes. In the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of this chapter which are less restrictive
than the village fire prevention/safety codes, the provisions of the village
fire prevention and safety codes shall control. This chapter shall supersede
the provisions of the Cook County clean indoor air ordinance. (Ord. 2007-02, 1-
23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
4-8-12: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed so as to further its purposes. (Ord.
2007-02, 1-23-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
CHAPTER 9
LITTERING
SECTION:
4-9-1: Littering Prohibition
4-9-2: Penalty
4-9-1: LITTERING PROHIBITION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, dump, deliver, or
deposit, upon any public way (highway, park, street, or parkway), or on private
property not leased or owned by him or without the consent of the owner or
lessee, any garbage, refuse, container, paper, waste, glass article, broken
glass, nails, tacks, metal objects or other article or material.
   (B)   Deliver means to place, throw, put, deposit, or take any action that
results in an item being moved to a certain place.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner or person in possession or control
of any motor vehicle, the glass or metal parts from which are broken and
dropped upon any public way, to promptly remove such broken glass and metal
parts and restore the public way to a condition safe for automotive and
pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 2017-15, 9-26-2017)
4-9-2: PENALTY:
Any individual, firm or association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2017-15, 9-26-2017)
TITLE V
WATER, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
WATER METERS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Application; Permit; Connections
5-1-2: Turning On Water; Seals
5-1-3: Meters
5-1-4: Access To Premises
5-1-5: Responsibility For Water Registered
5-1-6: Permit Fees
5-1-6A: Permit Fees For Taps Or Connections Outside The Village Limits
5-1-7: Tapping Water Mains
5-1-8: Installation Of Meters; Connections
5-1-9: Connection To Standard Main
5-1-10: Inspection; Approval Of Service Pipes
5-1-11: Water Without Meters
5-1-12: Use Of Plumber's Name
5-1-13: Water Deposits
5-1-14: Lien
5-1-15: Protection Of Public Water Supply System
5-1-1: APPLICATION; PERMIT; CONNECTIONS:
Any person or corporation desiring to make any connection with the water system
or plant, or use water therefrom, shall first make application to the
Superintendent upon a blank form or forms to be furnished by the Water and
Sewer Department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the part of
the applicant that all the rules and regulations, conditions and provisions of
any ordinance relating to the water and sewer system will be complied with;
that all water rates, assessments and rents, and all fines and penalties
assessed, charged or imposed against said applicant or the property described
in said application will be paid. When the applicant hereunder has complied
with all the provisions of this chapter, a permit shall then be issued by the
Superintendent authorizing the connection to be made and specifying the size
thereof. All plumbing and plumbing work, also all excavating, filling and
replacement of pavement shall be done by a plumber authorized to do such
plumbing; provided however, all such replacement of pavement shall be done by
the Village in accordance with the provisions of this Code or other applicable
ordinances. The permit shall authorize any such plumber to do such plumbing and
plumbing work as is described in the permit.
No service pipe shall be laid or used to supply water to two (2) distinct
premises, apartments, flats, or buildings unless separate meters for each of
the premises, apartments, flats, or buildings shall be placed outside of such
premises in the parkway, as hereinafter provided, and a permit shall be
obtained for such service. However, in a building containing more than two (2)
apartments, or flats, such meter, or meters, shall be installed as directed by
the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department. (1965 Code)
5-1-2: TURNING ON WATER; SEALS:
   (A)   No person, unless duly authorized, shall turn on any service cock, or
use water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty as provided in this Code,
and the person so using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be
liable to pay therefor at the regular water rates without discount.
   (B)   No seal placed by the Water and Sewer Department for the protection of
any meter, valve, fitting or other water connection shall be defaced or broken
except on written authority from the Superintendent.
   (C)   No person or persons, other than members of the Water and Sewer
Department, shall use water from any fire hydrant connected with the Village
water system, except for extinguishing fires or unless especially authorized by
the Superintendent. (1965 Code)
5-1-3: METERS:
All water consumers supplied by the Village shall be supplied through meters
only, except that in cases where it is impracticable to set a meter, the use
and consumption of water shall be governed by other applicable provisions of
this Code.
All meters used in connection with the water and sewer system shall be and
remain for all time the property of the Village, and shall be purchased by the
Village.
After the meter is placed, only officers or employees of said department shall
be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner interfere with the same. A
stopcock or valve shall be placed on each side of the meter. (4-27-65)
No person shall tamper in any way with a meter used in connection with water
and sewer service provided by the village. Any person found to have violated
this prohibition against tampering in any way with a meter used in connection
with water and sewer service provided by the village shall be fined not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than the maximum fine the
village may lawfully impose, for each violation. A separate violation shall be
deemed to have occurred on each calendar day that such a violation exists.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any person tampering in any way
with a meter used in connection with water and sewer service provided by the
village shall be liable to the village for any monies lost by the village as a
result of that tampering. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
village reserves the right to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
available to it for tampering with meters used in connection with the village's
provision of water and sewer service. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
The cost of keeping each meter in repair shall be paid by the person upon whose
application such meter was installed or repaired, as soon as the bill therefor
is presented. The person upon whose application any meter is installed shall be
liable for any breakage or any loss or damage to such meter in any way, except
by ordinary use and wear, and the cost of making good such loss or damage shall
be paid by the person upon whose application such meter was installed or
repaired as soon as the bill for same is presented, and the amount therefor
shall be a lien against the premises for which said meter was installed, to the
extent and with the same effect as water rates. In the event a water meter
shall have become worn out and unfit for use, the consumer may have a new meter
installed upon payment of cost of said meter.
The president and board of trustees shall in all cases determine the kind and
pattern of water meters to be adopted and no other kind shall be installed at
any time.
Water meters shall be located at such place and in such manner as the board of
trustees shall direct, and boxes or vaults in which such meters are to be
placed shall be in accordance with specifications to be prescribed by the
village, and such boxes or vaults must be so constructed as to prevent freezing
of water flowing through such meters. Vaults must be kept in such condition so
that meters may be read at any time. (4-27-65)
   (A)   Testing Of Water Meters: Upon written request of the owner or
consumer, a proper official will test the meter servicing the premises. A
deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be required before the meter is
disconnected. Said deposit will be returned if the meter is found to be
registering incorrectly, that is registering greater than two percent (2%) of
accurate on a flow equal to one-eighth (1/8) of the diameter of the service,
such condition being to the disadvantage of the consumer. Otherwise, the
deposit shall be retained by the village to cover the cost of the test. The
results of said test shall be reported to the owner or consumer as the case may
be. If the testing of the meter indicates that it was registering incorrectly,
the charge to the consumer for water used shall be on the basis of the
consumption for the corresponding period of the previous year. If the meter had
not been in service for a year or in the said corresponding period, or if for
any other reason the charge for said corresponding period cannot be justly
applied, the charge shall be equitably adjusted by the water committee. (Ord.
88-07, 2-23-1988)
5-1-4: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The superintendent and every person authorized by him and all meter inspectors
shall have ready access to the premises, place or buildings where such meters
are located for the purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing the
same, and examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it
shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with, prevent or
obstruct the superintendent or such person or inspector in his work. Every
consumer of water shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in the
provisions of this chapter. (4-27-65)
5-1-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER REGISTERED:
See section
5-2A-3-1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-1-6: PERMIT FEES:
The fees to be charged for a permit to tap or otherwise make connection with
any water main constructed shall be as follows:
Where a meter is installed the charge shall be six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) and said owner shall receive for said charge, the use of one 1-inch
meter, one shutoff valve, one corporation cock, and one tap, which articles
shall remain at all times the property of the village.
The charge for all water taps over one inch (1") shall be estimated by the
water superintendent and approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2002-26, 12-
10-2002)
5-1-6A: PERMIT FEES FOR TAPS OR CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE LIMITS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
5-1-6 of this chapter as to fees and charges for a permit to tap or otherwise
make connection to any water main, where the meter is installed outside the
corporate limits of the village of Posen, the charge shall be six hundred fifty
dollars ($650.00) and said owner shall receive for said charge the use of one
1-inch meter, one shutoff valve, one corporation cock, and one tap, which
articles shall remain at all times the property of the village.
The charge for all water taps over one inch (1") outside the corporate limits
of the village of Posen shall be estimated by the water superintendent and
approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2002-26, 12-10-2002)
5-1-7: TAPPING WATER MAINS:
Whenever any permit for a connection with the water mains of the village is
issued hereunder, the superintendent or an employee of the village so
designated for the work by the superintendent, shall tap the main of said
system where such connection is to be made and shall insert the corporation
cock. No connection with any water main of the village shall be less than one
inch (1"). (Ord. 2002-26, 12-10-2002)
5-1-8: INSTALLATION OF METERS; CONNECTIONS:
All connections from the water main shall consist of copper tubing with brass
fittings, and the connection from the main to the service cock shall be placed
at least five feet (5') below ground level. The copper tubing shall be placed
and installed in a manner to prevent rupture or breakage from ground settling.
No person, whether owner or occupant, in possession or control of any building,
structure or premises to which water is supplied through the water and sewer
system shall be allowed, without permission from the president and board of
trustees, to supply other persons or families or to supply water from such
building or premises to any other building, structure or premises. When a
person violates any of the foregoing provisions of this section, the supply of
water to the building, structure or premises of such person shall be shut off,
stopped, and terminated; and the water shall not be supplied to such building,
structure or premises from which it was terminated until there shall have been
paid to the village such sum of money as the president and board of trustees of
the village shall properly compute as due. (Ord. 84-5, 7-10-1984)
5-1-9: CONNECTION TO STANDARD MAIN:
In all cases where a standard water main is now installed or hereafter may be
installed in any street or alley or other public way, all water users located
on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting or abutting on any such street or
alley or other public way shall make or cause to be made connection to such
standard water main and pay the tapping charges therefor within six (6) months
hereafter or within six (6) months after the installation of such standard
water main if the same be not now installed, and such users shall discontinue
within the same period of time, any connection which they may have had with any
temporary water line, or well or other water supply line, unless authorized by
the president and board of trustees, to use said temporary water line, well, or
other water supply line in addition to the standard water main. (4-27-65)
5-1-10: INSPECTION; APPROVAL OF SERVICE PIPES:
All service pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by the
superintendent or other persons under his direction, and no such service pipes
shall be covered until they have been so inspected; provided, however, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to work done under the jurisdiction
of the board of local improvements. (4-27-65)
5-1-11: WATER WITHOUT METERS:
Before a permit for the use of water shall be issued where it is impracticable
to set a meter, the person applying for the same shall pay in advance seventy
five dollars ($75.00) to the collector as payment for water to be used by him
or her for thirty (30) days or less. If such person desires to continue to use
the water, he shall again pay seventy five dollars ($75.00) to the collector as
payment for water used by him or her for each period of thirty (30) days or
less in the same manner as is provided herein with respect to the first
deposit. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-23-2010)
5-1-12: USE OF PLUMBER'S NAME:
No plumber shall allow his name to be used by any other person or party
directly or indirectly for the purpose of obtaining permits or doing any work
under his license. (4-27-65)
5-1-13: WATER DEPOSITS:
Every residential water user who makes application for the purchase of water
from the Village shall accompany said application therefor with a deposit in
the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the purpose of guaranteeing
the user's residential account. However, if in the event that the resident has
two (2) or more meters the deposit would be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
per meter. The deposit for commercial or industrial buildings shall be four
hundred dollars ($400.00).
The Village Collector shall deposit said sum in the Water Fund account and a
record of said deposit shall, in each and every instance, be kept.
Deposits made in accordance with provisions hereof shall be refundable only
upon cancellation and final bill of the water service. It may be used to offset
any amount due for final water service. A certification of building inspections
must also be done. (Ord. 2017-21, 11-28-2017)
5-1-14: LIEN:
See section
5-2A-6-1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-1-15: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
   (A)   If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of
the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department will give notice
to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local
regulations.
   (B)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
Village enters the supply or distribution system of the Municipality, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of the
Water and Sewer Department and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer
Department to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and
other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual
or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at
least every two (2) years, or as often as the Superintendent of the Water and
Sewer Department shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
   (D)   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the
Superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent any information which he may request
regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The
refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the
Superintendent, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this section. (Ord. 86-18, 8-12-1986, eff. 8-12-1986)
   (E)   The Village President or his designees of the Village are hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a
reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is paid to the Village. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the Superintendent is
assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water
supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of
the cause of disconnection. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-11-2014)
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 86-18, 8-12-1986, eff. 8-12-
1986)
CHAPTER 2
WATER RATES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Rates
5-2-2: Rates For Water Users Outside The Village Limits
5-2-3: Prohibition On Purchase Of Water
5-2-4: Payment Of Charges; Penalties; Delinquents
5-2-5: Right To Change Rates
5-2-6: Village Not Liable For Damage
5-2-7: Lift Station
5-2-1: RATES:
Water customers within the village shall pay the following charges for water
usage to the village:
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (B) of this section, effective
May 1, 2012, each water customer within the village shall pay eight dollars
forty eight cents ($8.48) for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used
by that water customer; effective May 1, 2013, each water customer within the
village shall pay nine dollars seventy six cents ($9.76) for each one thousand
(1,000) gallons of water used by that water customer; effective May 1, 2014,
each water customer within the village shall pay eleven dollars twenty three
cents ($11.23) for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used by that
water customer; effective May 1, 2015, each water customer within the village
shall pay twelve dollars ninety two cents ($12.92) for each one thousand
(1,000) gallons of water used by that water customer. (Ord. 2012-06, 4-10-2012)
   (B)   Each water customer in the village who or which uses less than three
thousand (3,000) gallons of water per month shall pay a minimum billing charge
for such usage equal to the charge for the use of three thousand (3,000)
gallons of water during the applicable month. This minimum billing charge shall
be paid regardless of the actual amount of water used by each such water
customer who or which uses less than three thousand (3,000) gallons of water
per month, provided, that this minimum billing charge shall be waived for water
used by a water customer who is sixty five (65) years of age or older at his or
her residence, upon the following conditions: 1) a water customer sixty five
(65) years of age or older shall be entitled to such a waiver after his or her
submission of reasonably acceptable proof of his or her age and residence to
the village employee designated by the village president to receive such
documentation; and 2) upon the submission of such documentation by the
residential customer who is sixty five (65) years of age or older, he or she
shall pay for the actual amount of water used at his or her residence at the
rate set forth in subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, the terms "water customer", "water
user", "user", "water consumer" and "consumer" shall have the same meaning
given to the term water "customer" in section
5-2A-1-1 of this title. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-22-2008)
5-2-2: RATES FOR WATER USERS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE LIMITS:
All residential, apartment, commercial, industrial, rest home, shelter care
facility, nursing home, hospital, school, park, church or other water users
and/or consumers not within the corporate limits of the village shall be
charged and pay the water service rates and charges as provided in section
5-2-1 of this chapter plus an additional fifty percent (50%) thereof. (Ord.,
1976)
5-2-3: PROHIBITION ON PURCHASE OF WATER:
No person having their residence or place of business within the territorial
limits of the village shall be permitted to buy water or secure sewage
facilities from any other municipal corporation or other public utility for
such residence or place of business located in the village whenever the water
or sewer or both of the waterworks and sewerage system is adjacent to their
property. (1965 Code)
5-2-4: PAYMENT OF CHARGES; PENALTIES; DELINQUENTS:
See sections
5-2A-4-5 and
5-2A-5-1 et seq., of this title. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2-5: RIGHT TO CHANGE RATES:
The village shall have and retain authority from time to time to change,
increase, decrease or improve the water and sewer system and plant, or any part
or portion thereof or to establish new or different rates, regulations or
provisions concerning the use of said system or plant, or to alter, amend,
change or repeal the provisions of this chapter. (1965 Code)
5-2-6: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE:
All connection and water applied for, and all water used hereunder, shall be
upon the express condition that the village shall not be liable, nor shall any
claim be made against it for damage or injury caused by reason of the breakage
of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or appurtenances connected with
said water and sewer system or plant, or any part or portion of said plant, for
any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery or by
reason of stoppage, alteration, extension and renewals.
All repairs to service pipes and connections therefrom shall be at the expense
of the owner or tenant of the premises supplied, excepting repairs on the
section of the pipe included between the corporation cock at the main and the
curb cock in the parkway. (1965 Code)
5-2-7: LIFT STATION:
In addition to the water rates designated in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, water users residing south of 149th Street shall be
charged an additional fee, as computed to be reasonable by the water
department, for the maintenance of the lift station servicing said users. (1965
Code)
CHAPTER 2A
WATER AND SEWER CHARGE COLLECTIONS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-1-1: Terms Defined
5-2A-2: Deposits
5-2A-2-1: Deposit Required For New Applicants With Late Payment History Or
Unsatisfactory Credit
5-2A-2-2: Deposit Required For Late Paying Customers
5-2A-2-3: Amount Of Deposits
5-2A-2-4: Payment Of Deposits
5-2A-2-5: Adjustment Of Deposits
5-2A-2-6: Refund Of Deposit
5-2A-3: Charges
5-2A-3-1: Liability For Charges
5-2A-4: Billing
5-2A-4-1: Billing Cycles
5-2A-4-2: Estimated Bills
5-2A-4-3: Basis For Estimated Bills
5-2A-4-4: Refunds
5-2A-4-5: Past Due Bills; Late Payment Penalty
5-2A-5: Discontinuance And Reconnection Of Service
5-2A-5-1: Grounds For Discontinuance Of Water And Sewer Service
5-2A-5-2: Notice Of Discontinuance
5-2A-5-3: Hearing On Discontinuance
5-2A-5-4: Procedures For Discontinuance
5-2A-5-5: Discontinuance Of Service To Residential Customers With Serious
Illness
5-2A-5-6: Discontinuance For Other Reasons
5-2A-5-7: Voluntary Discontinuance
5-2A-5-8: Reconnection Of Service
5-2A-6: Liens
5-2A-6-1: Liens For Unpaid Bills
5-2A-6-2: Reservation Of Rights
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
5-2A-1-1: TERMS DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the respective
definitions set forth in this section:
CUSTOMER: A person who receives water and/or sewer service from the Village.
NEW APPLICANT: A person who applies for the provision of water and/or sewer
service from the Village.
PERSON: A natural person, corporation, real estate trust, partnership,
association or other legal entity. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2: DEPOSITS:
5-2A-2-1: DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR NEW APPLICANTS WITH LATE PAYMENT HISTORY OR
UNSATISFACTORY CREDIT:
   (A)   If, after a review of its records, the Village determines that a new
applicant has a history of failing to make timely payments of monies due and
owing to the Village, the Village may refuse to provide water and/or sewer
service to the new applicant until the new applicant pays all amounts due and
owing to the Village and agrees to provide a deposit to the Village pursuant to
sections
5-2A-2-3 through
5-2A-2-6, inclusive, of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Village is unable to establish satisfactory credit references
for a new applicant, the Village may refuse to provide water and/or sewer
service to the new applicant until the new applicant agrees to provide a
deposit to the Village pursuant to sections
5-2A-2-3 through
5-2A-2-6, inclusive, of this chapter.
   (C)   Deposits required pursuant to this section shall be in addition to
those otherwise required by this Code. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2-2: DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR LATE PAYING CUSTOMERS:
The Village may require a customer to pay a deposit to the Village pursuant to
sections
5-2A-2-3 through
5-2A-2-6, inclusive, of this chapter if the customer, during any consecutive
twenty four (24) month period, fails to timely pay its bill for Village sewer
services on two (2) occasions. Deposits required by this section shall be in
addition to those otherwise required by this Code. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2-3: AMOUNT OF DEPOSITS:
Deposits required pursuant to this chapter shall be equal to one- fourth (1/4)
of an estimated annual charge for the Village's provision of water and/or sewer
service to the new applicant or customer being required to make the deposit. In
the case of a new applicant, the estimated annual charge shall be based upon
the volume of water provided by the Village during the most recent three (3)
year period to a customer which is similar to the new applicant. In the case of
a customer, the estimated annual charge shall be based upon the volume of water
provided by the Village during the most recent three (3) year period to the
customer. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2-4: PAYMENT OF DEPOSITS:
Deposits required pursuant to this chapter must be paid within thirty (30) days
of the Village's issuance of a request for the deposit. Such a request shall
specify the amount of the deposit, reason for the request, method and place for
payment of the deposit, deadline for payment of the deposit and consequences
for nonpayment of the deposit. A request for a deposit shall be considered
issued by the Village when mailed personally or delivered to the new applicant
or customer being required to make the deposit. A request for a deposit shall
be dated with the date it is issued. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2-5: ADJUSTMENT OF DEPOSITS:
The Village may adjust the amount of a deposit required pursuant to this
chapter anytime when the character and/or degree of use of the Village's water
and/or sewer service by the new applicant or customer being required to make
the deposit changes or when it is clearly established that such use will
materially change in the immediate future. The Village may make such an
adjustment on its own accord or upon the request of the new applicant or
customer being required to make a deposit. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-2-6: REFUND OF DEPOSIT:
A deposit required pursuant to this chapter shall be refunded by the Village
after the new applicant or customer discontinues Village water service and
closes their water account. No deposit shall be refunded until all amounts owed
to the Village for water and/or sewer service to the customer or new applicant
making the deposit have been paid. Reasonable administrative costs incurred by
the Village as a result of such a deposit may be deducted from the refund.
(Ord. 2010-12, 12-14-2010)
5-2A-3: CHARGES:
5-2A-3-1: LIABILITY FOR CHARGES:
   (A)   The owner of any structure connected to the Village's water and/or
sewer system and the customer for that structure (if that customer is different
from the owner) shall be jointly and severally liable for Village charges for
the provision of water and/or sewer service to the structure and the Village's
provision of such service to the structure is conditioned upon such joint and
several liability.
   (B)   Charges for the Village's provision of water and/or sewer service to a
location shall not be reduced or rebated on account of leakage or alleged
leakage in any pipe, tank or other apparatus or device.
   (C)   Any person or party who shall vacate any premises, or any party who
shall enter upon and occupy any premises shall immediately before vacating from
or entering upon such premises, notify the Water and Sewer Department and
secure reading of the meter for the premises.
   (D)   The Village shall not provide water and/or sewer service to a person
at any location if any amount is due and owing to the Village from that person
regardless of the location or purpose for which such amount pertains. The
Village shall not provide water and/or sewer service to a location if any
amount is due and owing to the village for the provision of water and/or sewer
service to that location in the past. Notwithstanding any provision of this
subsection, the village president may provide water and/or sewer service to
persons and/or locations impacted by this subsection upon terms and conditions
which are in the village's best interests and/or upon a showing of good cause.
(Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-4: BILLING:
5-2A-4-1: BILLING CYCLES:
Regular billing for water and sewer service provided by the village shall be
issued on monthly cycles based upon either: a) a meter reading; or b) an
estimated bill issued pursuant to section
5-2A-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-4-2: ESTIMATED BILLS:
In addition to the estimated billing provided for in this section, the village
may require a customer to pay an estimated bill for water and/or sewer service
if the village has been unable to read the customer's water meter under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   The village has taken appropriate and reasonable measures to read the
meter, including, without limitation, attempting to make an appointment with
the customer, scheduling readings for times other than normal business hours,
and/or providing postal cards on which the customer may record the reading and
mail it to the village; or
   (B)   The customer has knowingly and wilfully denied reasonable access to
the village's representative for the purpose of taking an actual reading of the
meter; or
   (C)   The customer has otherwise made an actual reading of the meter
unnecessarily difficult; or
   (D)   Circumstances beyond the control of the village make an actual reading
of the meter extremely difficult or impossible. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-4-3: BASIS FOR ESTIMATED BILLS:
Estimated bills shall be calculated according to reasonable and commonly
accepted standards which shall be approved by a designee of the village's
corporate authorities. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-4-4: REFUNDS:
The village shall pay a customer any amount for which the customer is
overcharged for the village's provision of water and/or sewer service as a
result of an error by the village. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-4-5: PAST DUE BILLS; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
   (A)   All water and sewer charges shall be due and payable on or before the
tenth day after the day when the statements of such charges are submitted and
shall become delinquent if remaining unpaid thereafter.
   (B)   It shall become the duty of the superintendent of the water department
to cause the appropriate statement for water and sewer charges to be issued and
mailed to the appropriate customers in a timely manner.
   (C)   If a customer has not paid his or her water and/or sewer bill within
ten (10) days after the billing date, a penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of
said bill will be applied. The penalty will apply only to the water, sewer and
garbage service that is outstanding. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2020-
05, 2-11-2020)
5-2A-5: DISCONTINUANCE AND RECONNECTION OF SERVICE:
5-2A-5-1: GROUNDS FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICE:
The village may discontinue water and/or sewer service to a customer when the
customer fails to do any of the following:
   (A)   Make a deposit or increase a deposit required pursuant to this
chapter; or
   (B)   Pay a past due bill owed to the village for water and/or sewer service
for more than thirty (30) days after the past due date printed on the bill; or
   (C)   Provide the village with access to the customer's meter within ten
(10) business days after the village has sent the customer an estimated bill
pursuant to section
5-2A-4-2 of this chapter and the village thereafter makes a written request to
the customer for access to the meter.
   (D)   It shall constitute public nuisance if any building used for
residential, commercial or industrial purposes does not have a clean, potable
and adequate supply of running water. Due to Health and Safety concerns, such a
building without water service will not be approved for occupancy or continued
occupancy. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-15, 6-14-2022)
5-2A-5-2: NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE:
   (A)   The village may discontinue water and/or sewer service to a customer
only after it has mailed or personally delivered to that customer a written
notice of discontinuance substantially in the form set forth and attached to
ordinance 2004-20. Any notice required to be mailed or delivered to a customer
prior to discontinuance of service shall be mailed or delivered separately from
any bill to that customer.
   (B)   The village shall also mail a copy of the notice described in
subsection (A) of this section to a third party designated by a customer,
should the customer make a written request to the village for such third party
notice. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-5-3: HEARING ON DISCONTINUANCE:
   (A)   A customer, or at the customer's request, a duly authorized
representative of the customer, shall be given an opportunity to be heard by
the village's president or his or her designee, to challenge the village's
discontinuance of water and/or sewer service to the customer. The customer
shall make a request for such hearing in writing, mailed to the village
president at the village hall, within ten (10) business days after the mailing
or personal delivery to the customer of the notice required by section
5-2A-5-2 of this chapter. Such request shall state, at a minimum, that the
customer seeks such a hearing and the customer's name, address and telephone
number.
   (B)   A hearing pursuant to such request shall be held before the village's
president or his or her designee, at the village hall, during regular business
hours. The hearing shall be held no less than five (5) business days after the
mailing or personal delivery to the customer of a notice stating the date, time
and place of the hearing. Such mailing or personal delivery shall be made to
the customer at the address listed in the customer's request for a hearing.
   (C)   At such a hearing, the customer or his or her duly authorized agent
shall be given a reasonable period of time to make any presentation he or she
desires. The village president or his or her designee shall consider the
customer's presentation and shall explain the customer's account and the
village's contentions in connection with that account. The rules of evidence
shall not be applied in such hearing.
   (D)   Promptly after the hearing, the village president or his or her
designee shall make a written report summarizing matters discussed at such
hearing and his or her conclusions regarding the discontinuance of water and/or
sewer service. A copy of this report shall be mailed or personally delivered to
the customer at the address listed in the customer's request for a hearing.
This report shall constitute a "final decision of an administrative agency"
pursuant to article III of the Illinois code of civil procedure, 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. Such decision shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant to article III of the Illinois code of civil procedure, 735
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. The report shall state that the
customer has a right to such judicial review of the decision set forth in the
report. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-5-4: PROCEDURES FOR DISCONTINUANCE:
   (A)   The village may discontinue water and/or sewer service to a customer:
      1.   Not less than ten (10) business days after the mailing of the report
described in section
5-2A-5-3 of this chapter, if the customer has properly requested a hearing
pursuant to that section
5-2A-5-3 of this chapter; or
      2.   Not less than ten (10) business days after the mailing of the notice
described in section
5-2A-5-2 of this chapter, if the customer has not properly requested a hearing
pursuant to section
5-2A-5-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   The village shall also attempt to advise the customer that water and/
or sewer service is being discontinued by directing its employee making the
discontinuance to contact the customer at the time such service is being
discontinued. When the village is unable to discontinue such service during a
call made at the customer's premises, the village shall attempt to leave a
notice at the premises or billing address informing the customer that an
attempt to discontinue such service has been made and that such service
continues to be subject to discontinuance.
   (C)   The village shall make good faith effort to engage in collection
activity with a customer before delivering more than two (2) notices of
discontinuance of water and/or sewer service in any consecutive twelve (12)
month period.
   (D)   The village shall not discontinue water and/or sewer service to a
location before two o'clock (2:00) P.M. unless it is prepared to reconnect such
service on the same day. The village shall not discontinue water and/or sewer
service on a holiday or weekend unless it is prepared to reconnect such service
on that same holiday or weekend day. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-5-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE TO RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS WITH SERIOUS
ILLNESS:
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this code, discontinuance of village
water and/or sewer service to customers is prohibited for up to sixty (60) days
when discontinuance of such service will aggravate an existing illness of any
person who is a permanent resident of the premises where such service is
rendered and the customer for service complies with the following requirements:
   (A)   The illness must be certified to the village by a registered physician
or local board of health. The certification shall be in writing and shall
include the name of the ill person, a statement that he or she is a permanent
resident of the premises in question, the name, business address, and telephone
number of the certifying party, the nature of the illness, and the period of
time during which termination will aggravate the illness.
   (B)   Initial certification by the certifying party may be by telephone to
the village president or his or her designee, if written certification is
forwarded to the village within five (5) business days.
   (C)   Initial certification shall prohibit discontinuance of village sewer
service to the applicable premises for an additional thirty (30) days. The
certification may be renewed for the customer for such premises for an
additional thirty (30) days by providing another certificate to the village.
Failure to so renew the certificate shall entitle the village to initiate
procedures for discontinuance of such service.
   (D)   The customer must enter into an agreement with the village for the
retirement of the unpaid balance of the account for village water and/or sewer
service to the customer within the first thirty (30) days and keep the current
account paid during the period that the unpaid balance is to be retired.
   (E)   In the event village water and/or sewer service is terminated within
fourteen (14) days prior to certification of illness by or for a qualifying
resident, service shall be restored to that residence if a proper certification
is thereafter made in accordance with this section. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-5-6: DISCONTINUANCE FOR OTHER REASONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the village from discontinuing water and/
or sewer service to any person and/or location for reason of safety, health or
cooperation with civil authorities. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-5-7: VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE:
The village may discontinue water and/or sewer service to a customer at the
customer's request, if no meter is removed in connection with that request. It
shall not be necessary for the village to proceed with a hearing on
discontinuance under such circumstances. If the village agrees to the
customer's request, the customer shall be liable for the payment of all actual
costs the village incurs in connection with the discontinuance and reconnection
of such service. The customer shall not be required to pay the reconnection
fees imposed pursuant to section
5-2A-5-8 of this chapter. If the customer is the owner of a multiple family
dwelling, two- family dwelling or apartment house/hotel as defined in the
Zoning Ordinance of the Village, Title XI of the Posen Village Code, the
Village shall charge such customer a connection and disconnection fee of
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each such line connected or disconnected.
(Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
5-2A-5-8: RECONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   If water and/or sewer service to a location and/or customer has been
discontinued, that service shall not be reconnected to that location and/or
customer unless:
      1.   All outstanding amounts due to the village and pertaining to that
location and/or due from that customer have been paid in full; or
      2.   Matters pertaining to such reconnection have been otherwise resolved
pursuant to order of the Village President made upon a showing of good cause.
   (B)   Reconnection Fee: A customer whose water and/or sewer service has been
reconnected after discontinuance shall pay the Village a reconnection fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00), plus the actual costs the Village incurs in excess of
that fee for such reconnection. The reconnection fee shall increase by twenty
five dollars ($25.00) over the prior reconnection fee paid by a customer for
each additional reconnection performed during a consecutive twelve (12) month
period. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
   (C)   Reinstating Disconnected Water Services For Non-Payment: Any resident
or businesses that have had their water service disconnected due to non-payment
of their bill must pay their account in full along with any shut off fees that
have been incurred. Payment must be received no later than two o'clock (2:00)
P.M. for your service to be reconnected. Failure to pay by the above time will
result in your service not being reinstated until the following day. (Ord.
2018-17, 8-14-2018)
5-2A-6: LIENS:
5-2A-6-1: LIENS FOR UNPAID BILLS:
The Village shall have a lien upon the premises and property of a customer for
unpaid bills for water and/or sewer service. Such lien may be enforced by
appropriate foreclosure procedures against the premises or property of said
customer in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Suit shall be commenced as hereinafter provided or a claim for lien in
the name of the Village shall be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of Cook County, Illinois, within four (4) months after such bills for water
and/or sewer service become due and payable; provided that at least ten (10)
days before the commencement of such suit or the filing of such claim for lien,
the Village shall have sent a notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, to the premises upon or for which water and/or
sewer service was supplied, or the water and/or sewer service was installed or
discontinued, addressed as follows:
   "To the owner or owners and party or parties interested in the premises at
[insert address]", which notice shall state that the Village will commence such
suit or file such claim for lien if the bill or bills for water and/or sewer
service which have become due and payable are not paid within ten (10) days
from the date of such notice.
   (B)   The claim for lien shall be verified by affidavit of the
Superintendent of the Water Department or any of his or her subordinates with
personal knowledge of the facts supporting the lien and shall consist of a
brief statement of the nature of the claim including:
      1.   That water and/or sewer service was furnished or water and/or sewer
service was installed or disconnected by the Village at the premises;
      2.   A description of the premises or real property sufficient for
identification upon or for which the water and/or sewer service has been
furnished or water and/or sewer service was installed or disconnected;
      3.   The quantity of water and/or sewer service so furnished if
registered by a meter, or the amount of the charges for the installation or
discontinuance of the water and/or sewer service;
      4.   That such water and/or sewer service was furnished at rates and
charges fixed by ordinance or such charges for installation or disconnection of
water and/or sewer service were fixed as provided by ordinance if not
registered by meter;
      5.   The amount or amounts of money due therefor;
      6.   The dates when such amount or amounts became due and payable; and
      7.   The date of the mailing of the notice hereinbefore provided.
   (C)   Suit shall be commenced in the name of the Village to enforce its lien
by foreclosure proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction within four
(4) months after any water and/or sewer bills become due and payable, and in
the case a claim for lien has been filed within four (4) months as provided in
the proceeding subsection, such suit shall be commenced within two (2) years
after such claim for lien has been filed. Any person interested in premises or
real estate affected may be made a party defendant to such suit and any
judgment, decree or order of sale of the premises or real estate subject to
such lien shall affect only the interests therein of the parties defendant in
such suit. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-2A-6-2: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The Village's pursuit of one remedy for the nonpayment of charges due and owing
for water and/or sewer service shall not preclude the Village from pursuing any
other remedy for such nonpayment. Nothing in this Code shall prevent the
Village from pursuing any or all legal remedies available to it for obtaining
payment for its provision of water and/or sewer service, including, without
limitation, discontinuance, lien, civil, administrative or criminal
proceedings. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
CHAPTER 3
REVENUE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Accounts to be Kept
5-3-1: ACCOUNTS TO BE KEPT:
All revenues and money derived from the operation of the combined waterworks
and sewerage system shall be held by the Water Bill Collector separate and
apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds, and
all of said sum, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the
Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after the receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may be directed by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village. The Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and moneys
incidental to the operation of said system as the same may be delivered to him
and deposit the same in a separate fund, designated as the "Waterworks and
Sewerage Fund of the Village", and said Treasurer shall administer said Fund in
every respect in the manner provided by the Statutes of the State. Said
Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep proper
books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made
of all transactions relative to the waterworks and sewerage system, and at
regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made, under the direction of the
President and Board of Trustees, an audit by an independent auditing concern of
the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the combined water and
sewer system.
CHAPTER 4
WATER
SECTION:
5-4-1: Rules And Regulations
5-4-2: Special Connections
5-4-3: Police To Help
5-4-4: Turning On Water; Violation
5-4-5: Turning Off Water
5-4-6: Illinois State Route 83 Prohibition
5-4-7: Water Conservation
5-4-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Water consumers, licensed plumbers and others shall be governed by the
following rules and regulations:
   (A)   All work done in the streets and alleys or public places of the
village, in connection with the water and sewer systems shall be done in a
thorough and workmanlike manner and shall be under the supervision and
direction of the superintendent and subject to his approval.
   (B)   No connection shall be made with the said water and sewer system
without proper permit from the water department.
   (C)   No water service shall be laid nearer than eighteen inches (18") from
a parallel trench.
   (D)   All earth removed in excavating for said sewer and water service pipes
shall be returned to the trenches from which it was taken, and shall be
replaced in layers not exceeding six inches (6") in depth; each layer shall be
thoroughly compacted by ramming, and the earth shall be moistened sufficiently
to permit the return of all the earth to the trenches by ramming as above
specified. All streets and roadways shall be backfilled with sand, and shall be
maintained for a period of one year in as good condition for travel as they
were before the commencement of the said work.
   (E)   The installation of all service pipes must be done in a workmanlike
manner, under the supervision of the superintendent and shall withstand a test
of one hundred twenty five (125) pounds pressure for a period of ten (10)
minutes without leaking.
   (F)   There shall be a shutoff provided for every connection. Each and every
meter shall be set in a meter vault of not less than eighteen inches (18") in
internal diameter with a steel or cast iron lid or cover.
   (G)   All service pipes shall be so laid so as to prevent freezing, breaking
or rupture by settling.
   (H)   All boilers connected with the water and sewer system shall be
provided with a tank of sufficient capacity to hold at least six (6) hours'
supply, and in case this supply is shut off for the purpose of repair or any
other purpose, the village will not be responsible for the damage that may
result. Consumers and other persons are prohibited from connecting pipes
directly with the village pressure to supply steam boilers.
   (J)   No alteration, change of location or addition of any kind shall be
made to any water meter, water cock or service pipe, connected in any way with
the supply to any building or premises, without first obtaining a written
permit from the collector.
   (K)   A complete statement in writing shall be made to the collector by the
person doing the work of any connections made with the water and sewer system.
   (L)   All hydrants or plugs placed in the village for fire purposes, are
hereby declared to be the village hydrants, and no person, except such as have
been authorized by the board of trustees, shall open or draw water therefrom,
or in any manner interfere with same except in case of fire.
   (M)   The superintendent and the collector and other authorized persons
shall have free access to any premises in which water is introduced for the
purpose of examining the fixtures and pipes at any time between the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day. (1965 Code)
5-4-2: SPECIAL CONNECTIONS:
Any person being a regular consumer may be permitted by the board of trustees
to make special connections with the street mains, together with hydrants and
house cocks, to be used in case of fire. All such work in connection with the
water and sewer system must be done by the village or under the direction of
the superintendent of water and sewer works. (1965 Code)
5-4-3: POLICE TO HELP:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent and police and all persons in the
employ of the village having police power to enforce the provisions of
ordinances, rules and regulations respecting the water and sewer system and to
arrest or cause to be arrested all persons violating the same. (1965 Code)
5-4-4: TURNING ON WATER; VIOLATION:
Any person who shall turn on the supply of water to any premises for which the
supply has for any reason been shut off, without first having obtained a permit
to do so from the superintendent, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1965 Code)
5-4-5: TURNING OFF WATER:
See section
5-2A-5-1 et seq., of this title. (Ord. 2004-20, 6-22-2004)
5-4-6: ILLINOIS STATE ROUTE 83 PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause the discharge
of any sanitary and industrial wastewater into the storm sewer system
constructed by the state of Illinois, department of transportation, within,
along, and upon State Route 83 (147th Street, Sibley Boulevard) within the
village. (Ord. 78-18, 9-26-1978)
5-4-7: WATER CONSERVATION:
   (A)   The village president is hereby authorized to declare a water shortage
emergency to exist within the village and to immediately put into effect a
water conservation plan aimed at conserving the village's water supply during
such shortage.
   (B)   At such time as the village president declares that a water shortage
emergency exists, he shall promulgate rules and regulations providing for
prohibitions and restrictions on the use of water in the village. Such rules
and regulations shall be effective until the water shortage is declared by the
village president to be at an end. Such rules and regulations shall be known as
the water conservation plan for the village.
   (C)   The village president may either prohibit or restrict the usage of
water as follows:
      1.   Residential external use of water for sprinkling, pools and car
washing;
      2.   Commercial car wash establishments;
      3.   Commercial laundries; and
      4.   Industrial uses.
   (D)   So as to comply with the Illinois department of transportation's
"Rules And Regulations For The Allocation Of Water From Lake Michigan", dated
January 1985, as amended November 3, 1988, commencing from May 15 through
September 15 of each year, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns or gardens
on any day of the week, except between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M.; provided, however, in water shortage emergency conditions,
sprinkling or irrigation shall be permitted only on an odd/even basis (on odd
calendar days if the last digit in the street address is odd or on the even
calendar days if the last digit in the street address is even) between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   (E)   The village reserves the right to further limit or suspend the use of
water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other
special purposes whenever the village president shall determine that the public
exigencies require such action as provided in subsection (A) of this section.
   (F)   Whenever the village, either through this subsection or by use of
subsection (B) of this section limits or suspends the use of water for the
sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other special purpose
(s), it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use water for
the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other special
purpose(s) designated, other than during the times allowed for such use(s) of
water; provided, that said person, firm or corporation has been given notice of
said limitation on, or the suspension of, the use of water, from the village by
telephone, U.S. mail or personal service.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 89-10, 6-27-1989)
CHAPTER 5
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Authority
5-5-2: Dedication
5-5-3: Width Of Streets
5-5-4: Permission To Beautify
5-5-5: Maintenance Of Parkways, Alleys, Property And Adjacent Easements
(Landscaping Nuisance Or Grass Cutting And Leaf Sweeping)
5-5-6: Minimum Standards For Lot Grading, Backfilling, And Landscaping
5-5-7: Supervision
5-5-8: Construction
5-5-9: Bond
5-5-10: Specifications
5-5-11: Injury To New Pavements
5-5-12: Repairs
5-5-13: Defects
5-5-14: Obstruction
5-5-15: Barricades
5-5-16: Disturbing Barricades
5-5-17: Private Use
5-5-18: Encroachment
5-5-19: Lug Wheels, Cleated Tracks; Prohibited
5-5-20: Deposit On Streets
5-5-21: Deposit On Sidewalks
5-5-22: Drains
5-5-23: Poles And Wires
5-5-24: Gas Pumps
5-5-25: Street, Alley, Parkway; Opening Fees And Bonds
5-5-26: Games
5-5-27: Openings
5-5-28: Specifications
5-5-1: AUTHORITY:
All streets, public alleys and thoroughfares shall be the property of the
Village, under the control and management of the President and Board of
Trustees; and no additional streets or alleys shall be created, and no existing
streets or alleys shall be closed without the permission of the Board. (1965
Code)
5-5-2: DEDICATION:
In accordance with the practice universally followed heretofore, when any plat
is submitted to the Board for approval or when any portion of land is to be
dedicated to the Village for a public thoroughfare, such dedication or plat
shall be accompanied by an instrument conveying full title to the Village,
instead of easement rights, in the portion to become a public thoroughfare.
(1965 Code)
5-5-3: WIDTH OF STREETS:
All streets in the Village shall be sixty six feet (66') wide with the
following exceptions:
   (A)   Half section line streets shall be eighty feet (80') wide.
   (B)   Streets of different width may be permitted provided such width is
approved by the Plan Commission.
The curb line for streets sixty six feet (66') wide shall be a distance of
nineteen feet (19') from the middle of the street. The curb line for all other
streets shall be set by the Board. (1965 Code)
5-5-4: PERMISSION TO BEAUTIFY:
The Village hereby grants a revocable permission for each citizen to beautify
the portion of land owned by the Village and located between his premises and
the adjoining curb line, providing, however, that no encumbrance other than
bushes, grass, flowers, trees and decorative rocks be established thereon.
Fences, fence posts, wires, and any other type of encumbrance is strictly
prohibited. Such permission shall include all other rights of possession
exercisable against all but the duly appointed or elected representatives of
the Village acting in official capacity. An action for trespass may be brought
by the adjoining owner with regard to such portion of land, exclusive of the
area occupied by the public sidewalk. (1965 Code)
5-5-5: MAINTENANCE OF PARKWAYS, ALLEYS, PROPERTY AND ADJACENT EASEMENTS
(LANDSCAPING NUISANCE OR GRASS CUTTING AND LEAF SWEEPING):
   (A)   Maintenance Of Parkway: It shall be the duty of each person residing
on, or owning, property abutting on the Village streets to maintain the area
between his lot line and the curb line and public sidewalk free from weeds,
tall grasses, overhanging branches of less than seven feet (7') above the
ground, and other noxious herbage or matter. Any person notified by the Code
Officer to remove such offensive matter from the area fronting upon his place
of residence, or property owned by him, shall be fined twenty five dollars
($25.00) not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day such offense
continues within five (5) days after notification thereof.
   (B)   Maintenance Of Alley And Adjacent Easements: It shall be the duty of
each person residing on or owning property abutting on a Village alley to
maintain the area between his lot line and the centerline of the alley free
from weeds, tall grasses, overhanging branches of less than seven feet (7')
above the ground, and other noxious herbage or matter. Any person notified by
the Code Officer to remove such offensive matter from the area adjacent to his
place of residence or property owned by him shall be fined twenty five dollars
($25.00) not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day such offense
continues after five (5) days of notification thereof. (Ord. 2017-10, 7-11-
2017)
   (C)   In The Performance Of Maintaining Residential Property(ies): It shall
be unlawful for any resident, owner, person or representative of the same to
cast, throw, rake, sweep, blow, sift or deposit in any manner in or upon any
public street, alley or public way, any type of yard waste or debris.
Depositing grass clipping, leaves or other landscaping materials within the
public streets, gutters or other non-specified locations is prohibited. Yard
waste of all types must be placed in a yard waste receptacle that is water
tight with a tight fitting cover or in brown or tan paper leaf bags that are
approved for yard waste. Any person seen depositing yard waste in the street or
specified areas will be assessed a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fine. Residents
notified by the Code Officer for excess yard waste fronting their property in
any areas specified above shall also be fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) not
to exceed seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each day such offense continues
within five (5) days of notification thereof. (Ord. 2018-33, 11-13-2018)
5-5-6: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LOT GRADING, BACKFILLING, AND LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Grades:
      1.   All elevations and grades for public or local improvements, or
required for subdivision plats, or otherwise, shall be given in terms of United
States Geodetic Survey Datum. Specific references shall be made to applicable
United States government bench marks located throughout the Village.
      2.   The Village Engineer, in accordance with established grade plans
shall determine the finished grade, or elevation heights. The finished grade at
building and at each corner of the property shall be indicated on drawings
submitted with application for permit, courses, or means of disposal, of all
stormwater shall also be indicated on above drawings.
      3.   All grade stakes and grade elevations shall be established by a
registered surveyor or professional engineer.
      4.   After registration and the posting of bond, but before work is
commenced, a landscape contractor and/or installer shall obtain a copy of the
grading plan or topographic survey previously approved by the Village and, in
performing the work, shall adhere to the grades as shown thereon.
      5.   Upon completion of finish grading the Village Engineer shall field
check the grades, and certify the propriety of same to the Building Department.
The Building Department shall not issue a certificate of occupancy unless such
certification is received. The building official may grant a delay in
certification of the grade (not to exceed 6 months) because of weather
conditions. In the event that final grading is delayed monies are to be
deposited in a Village escrow account equal to one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the cost of the grading and landscaping as provided in this section.
      6.   The permittee shall pay all costs related to the engineering,
setting and checking of grades.
      7.   The certificate of occupancy shall indicate the owner's
responsibility for installation of rear yard landscaping and maintenance of
finish grades and existing landscaping in accordance with building regulations.
   (B)   Backfilling:
      1.   Material used shall be clean and free from material subject to
decay, wood scraps, large boulders, large pieces of concrete or stone, frozen
clumps, or other deleterious substances.
      2.   No backfill shall be placed against concrete foundation walls before
waterproofing has been applied.
      3.   Backfill shall be placed carefully against walls and shall be well
compacted. When backfilling before the first floor construction is in place,
care shall be exercised in operation of heavy equipment near walls. Bracing
shall be applied to walls when necessary.
      4.   All sewers, water lines and all other underground work shall be
protected when backfilling or grading.
   (C)   Grading Or Drainage: Grading or drainage or both, shall be performed
so that water will drain away from the building on all sides and off the lot in
a manner which will provide reasonable freedom from erosion and pocketed
surface water. Construction such as walks, driveways and retaining walls shall
be installed so that they will not interfere with drainage. All sidewalks,
driveways, patios and other flat work shall have the top of the finished
surface four inches (4") minimum below the top of the foundation wall. (Ord.
2003-06, 4-22-2003)
   (D)   Finish Grade And Topsoil: After rough grading to a level not less than
four inches (4") minimum below anticipated finish grade, the builder, or
developer, shall bring the levels of the property (excluding areas covered by
buildings, garages, walks, patios or driveways) up to the established finish
grade levels with black earth or topsoil. Such topsoil shall not be less than
four inches (4") deep, and shall be suitable for planting sod.
   (E)   Sodding: The following are basic requirements for single- family
property:
The builder of each developed lot or parcel shall sod the entire lot (including
public rights of way) not improved by buildings, structures, parking surfaces
or accessways. The building department shall not issue a certificate of
occupancy unless such certification is received. The building official may
grant a delay in certification of the sodding (not to exceed 6 months) because
of weather conditions. In the event that sodding is delayed, monies are to be
deposited in a village escrow account equal to one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the cost of the grading and landscaping as provided in this section.
All lots or parcels not sodded, seeded or hydroseeded, regardless of the date
of occupancy must conform to the requirements of this section upon notification
by the village of Posen. (Ord. 2006-02, 3-28-2006)
   (F)   Escrow And Performance Bond Requirements: All grading, backfilling,
and landscaping must be completed and inspected by the building department and
final grades approved by the village engineer before a certificate of occupancy
is issued. In the case of inclement weather a six (6) month extension may be
granted by the building department after monies or a performance bond is issued
to the village of Posen in the amount of one hundred twenty percent (120%) of
the final cost of the work to be performed. The village engineer shall
calculate these costs.
The builder shall complete all work within six (6) months of the issuance of
the performance bond or the monies being escrowed. In the event that the work
is not completed within that time period the village, upon its discretion may
utilize these funds to complete the project. (Ord. 2003-06, 4-22-2003)
5-5-7: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of streets. He shall be charged with the
enforcement of all provisions relating to such public places, except traffic
provisions, and is hereby authorized to enforce such provisions of this code.
(1965 Code)
5-5-8: CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement or any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without first
having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permit shall be made to
the clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof, and the person who is to do the actual construction work. No
such permit shall be issued except on order of the village board. (1965 Code)
5-5-9: BOND:
Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) with surety to be approved by the board, conditioned to indemnify
the municipality for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or
the manner of doing and/or completing the same. (1965 Code)
5-5-10: SPECIFICATIONS:
All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved by the village board. (1965 Code)
5-5-11: INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to knowingly walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal
upon, or injure, mark or deface, any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement.
(1965 Code)
5-5-12: REPAIRS:
All public street, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be kept in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or by abutting owner, shall be
under the supervision of the superintendent of streets. (1965 Code)
5-5-13: DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of every officer or employee becoming cognizant of any
defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to report
the same to the superintendent of streets as soon as possible. (1965 Code)
5-5-14: OBSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way,
where such obstruction interferes with vehicle or pedestrian traffic. (Ord.
2005-07, 8-9-2005)
5-5-15: BARRICADES:
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other
public place, or making an excavation in any such place, shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the
work; such barricade shall be protected by lights at nighttime.
Any defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any such
injury, and any person, properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights. (1965 Code)
5-5-16: DISTURBING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1965 Code)
5-5-17: PRIVATE USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public
place, as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise; or to write or
mark any signs or advertisements on any such street, sidewalk, or public place.
(1965 Code)
5-5-18: ENCROACHMENT:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property. (1965 Code)
5-5-19: LUG WHEELS, CLEATED TRACKS; PROHIBITED:
No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle shall be
operated across, over or along any street in the village, if any such vehicle
has on the periphery of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat,
ridge, lug, or any projection of metal or wood which projects radically beyond
the tread of traffic surface of the tire; except that this prohibition shall
not apply to tractors or traction engines equipped with what is known as
crawler type tractors, when the same does not contain any projections of any
kind likely to injure the surface of the roads, nor to tractors, traction
engines and similar vehicles which have upon their road wheels v-shaped,
diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in
contact with the road surface. In no event shall the surface of any street be
used as an area or space for turning any tractor or other farm machinery in
carrying on or performing any farming operations upon the adjacent land.
Provided, that nothing in this section contained shall prohibit the operation
of tractors, traction engines or motor trucks across any street in order to
reach adjacent lands if the street is protected by putting down solid planks or
other suitable devices to prevent such vehicle from injuring the surface of the
street. (1965 Code)
5-5-20: DEPOSIT ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may be harmful
to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or any articles
which may do injury to any person, animal or property or to deposit any litter
thereon.
Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery or
use, provided such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the roadway at
the point to less than eighteen feet (18'), provided that such material,
equipment, or coal, other than material or equipment to be used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such street for more
than three (3) hours.
Any such material, equipment or coal shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon any street after nighttime. (1965 Code)
5-5-21: DEPOSIT ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or
other articles which may cause injury to persons, animals or property.
Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks preparatory to
delivery, provided that the usable width of the walk is not thereby reduced to
less than four feet (4') and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour nor shall such article remain upon any
sidewalk after night time.
5-5-22: DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
5-5-23: POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any
public street, alley or other public way without having first secured
permission from the Board.
5-5-24: GAS PUMPS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley or sidewalk, without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the Board.
No such permit shall be issued until the applicant furnishes a bond or
indemnity policy with corporate surety, to indemnify the Village against loss
or liability, in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), occasioned by
such tank or pump. (1965 Code)
5-5-25: STREET, ALLEY, PARKWAY; OPENING FEES AND BONDS:
   (A)   Permit fees for any street, alley or parkway excavation shall be as
follows:
 
Improved street            $300.00
Unimproved street or alley 150.00
Parkway-unimproved         125.00
Openings in excess of above size - fee to be set by Building Committee.
 
No surface excavation shall be made on any improved street unless Director of
Public Works determines other means of excavation are not feasible. No opening
shall exceed four feet (4') in width.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for street, alley or parkway excavation
until the applicant shall have deposited with the Village a cash bond in the
following amounts:
 
Improved streets            $500.00
Unimproved streets or alley 350.00
Parkways                    200.00
 
(Ord. 93-03, 5-25-93)
Upon approval of the Building Committee, the bond shall be refunded to the
applicant less the cost of final repairs to the street, alley or parkway,
provided said bond has not been forfeited as herein before provided.
   (C)   Any improvement or other construction for which a bond or any escrow
deposit has been made under this Code or any ordinance of the Village shall be
completed within a one year period from the time of the deposit.
The party depositing the bond or other escrow deposit shall apply for a refund
of said deposit within one year of the time of deposit; if an application is
not made for such a refund, the bond or escrow deposit shall automatically be
forfeited and placed in the general corporate fund of the Village.
Any bond or other escrow deposit held by the Village at the time of enactment
of this Section shall be automatically forfeited one year after the time of the
deposit, if no application for refund is made but in no event shall said
deposit be forfeited less than six (6) months from the date of enactment of
this Section. (Ord. 88-10, 3-22-88)
5-5-26: GAMES:
It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk,
where such games cause unnecessary noise, or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians.
5-5-27: OPENINGS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street or sidewalk or alley without a permit from the Board. All such
lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover or a
railing, to the approval of the Superintendent of Streets. (1965 Code)
5-5-28: SPECIFICATIONS:
For Street Opening And Replacement Of Pavement: After issuance of permit for
street opening, the permittee shall comply with all sections of this Code
pertaining to taps, connections, street openings and surface improvement
replacement. Procedures for backfilling and pavement replacement shall be as
follows:
   (A)   All excavated material from street opening shall be removed from site.
   (B)   Sand or screenings shall be used as cushion a minimum depth of four
inches (4") under all pipe in street area.
   (C)   Sewer pipe shall be layed on true line and grade a minimum of one-
fourth inch (1/4") per foot slope.
   (D)   The first twelve inches (12") of screening or grade eight (8) stone
shall be placed over pipe by hand and thoroughly tamped.
   (E)   Machine backfilling will be permitted from twelve inches (12") over
pipe to street surface in lifts not exceeding twelve inch (12") layers, each
layer being thoroughly mechanically or hand tamped before next layer is placed.
   (F)   Parkways shall be furnished on top with a minimum of six inches (6")
of new top soil.
   (G)   Where services cross sidewalks, the sidewalk shall be removed and
replaced to the nearest joint on both sides. Curb may be tunneled provided
satisfactory compaction is obtained. However, if the curb is damaged or broken
it shall be replaced to the nearest joint on both sides.
   (H)   Upon completion of trench compaction, the entire trench shall be
thoroughly wetted down.
   (J)   Street surface, curb and gutter and sidewalk shall be replaced in kind
according to original project specifications.
   (K)   When surface course is replaced, existing surface shall be cut on neat
straight lines to obtain a neat patch. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Permit Required
5-6-2: Fees
5-6-3: Size And Location
5-6-4: Grading
5-6-5: Materials
5-6-6: Repair
5-6-7: Penalty
5-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct or alter any driveway across any sidewalk, parkway,
or street in the village without first obtaining a permit from the building
department.
Applications for such permit shall include an overview drawing designating the
proposed location, dimensions, and property line setbacks as required by
section
5-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-1996)
5-6-2: FEES:
The fee for all such construction permits shall be ten cents (.10) a square
foot or a minimum of thirty dollars ($30.00) plus a forty-five dollar ($45.00)
inspection fee. The permit shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit
and commencement of any work. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-24, 9-27-
2022)
5-6-3: SIZE AND LOCATION:
   (A)   The maximum width for driveways serving single-family residences shall
be twelve feet (12') at the sidewalk line and fifteen feet (15') at the curb,
provided, however, that where a two (2) car or three (3) car garage is located
within fifty feet (50') of the facing property line, the driveway shall not
exceed twenty feet (20') at the sidewalk line or twenty four feet (24') at the
curb. No driveway shall encroach upon any portion of the parkway in front of
the adjoining property.
No pavers, bricks, stones, or other building or surfacing materials are
permitted nor shall be installed, placed, or laid, parallel to the driveway to
enhance or expand parking on a driveway beyond the maximum width herein. (Ord.
2016-13, 11-22-2016)
   (B)   No driveway shall be constructed in a single-family zoning district so
that it extends more than three feet (3') beyond the dimension of the structure
that it is serving, provided that it is no closer than one foot (1') from any
side property line. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-1996)
5-6-4: GRADING:
Driveways shall conform to the existing sidewalk grade, and the slope of any
driveway shall not exceed one inch (1") per foot in any direction. Each such
driveway shall be constructed and maintained so as to permit free and
unobstructed passage on, over or across the sidewalk, and in such a manner as
not to interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of streets. Each
such driveway shall be so constructed and maintained that its surface at the
point of crossing any sidewalk pavement shall be flush with the adjoining
sections of such sidewalk. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-1996)
5-6-5: MATERIALS:
Driveways shall be constructed of either concrete, asphalt or approved paving
bricks, and shall conform to the following specifications:
   (A)   Concrete: Concrete driveways shall have a minimum thickness of five
inches (5") placed over a crushed stone bedding of at least two inches (2") in
thickness for single-family residential use. Multi-family, commercial and
industrial driveways shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") in thickness and
placed over a three inch (3") stone bedding. Expansion joints shall be used
between the back of the curb and on both sides of the public sidewalk/driveway
area.
   (B)   Asphalt:
      1.   Single-family residential driveways shall be constructed in two (2)
courses and shall not be less than eight inches (8") in thickness after
compaction. The crushed stone base course shall be six inches (6") in thickness
and compacted until all voids are filled with finely crushed stone or sand. The
asphalt surfaced course shall be two inches (2") in thickness after compaction.
      2.   All other driveways and aprons shall be constructed in two (2)
courses and shall not be less than eleven inches (11") in thickness after
compaction. The crushed stone base shall be eight inches (8") in thickness and
compacted until all voids are filled with finely crushed stone or sand. The
asphalt surfaced course shall be a minimum of three inches (3") in thickness
after compaction.
   (C)   Paving Bricks: Driveways that are to be constructed of paving bricks
shall be placed in such a manner as is prescribed by the specifications
provided by the manufacturer, a copy of which shall be provided by the builder
to the village building department for review prior to the commencement of any
construction.
      1.   The use of paving bricks in place of concrete for a public sidewalk
is prohibited.
   (D)   Crushed Stone: The use of crushed stone, slag, sand or other like
material as a finished surface for any driveway is prohibited. (Ord. 96-16, 7-
23-1996)
5-6-6: REPAIR:
It shall be the obligation of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the
same in good repair and free from obstructions and openings. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-
1996)
5-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any applicable provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 96-16, 7-23-1996)
CHAPTER 7
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
5-7-1: House Numbering/Premises Identification
5-7-1: HOUSE NUMBERING/PREMISES IDENTIFICATION:
Each house or building shall have approved address numbers placed in a position
to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property
and also in the rear of the property on garage, fence or shed where an alleyway
is accessible. These numbers shall not be less than four inches (4") and they
shall be in contrast with their background. (Ord. 2018-16, 7-24-2018)
CHAPTER 8
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Permit Required
5-8-2: Violations
5-8-3: Grade Surface
5-8-4: Specifications of Materials
5-8-5: Preparing of Concrete
5-8-6: Subgrade
5-8-7: Depth and Specification of Concrete
5-8-8: Expansion Joints
5-8-9: Markings on Sidewalk
5-8-10: Construction
5-8-11: Bond
5-8-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall build, rebuild, remove, repair or in any manner disturb any
sidewalk without first having obtained a permit from the Collector, specifying
the work done; any violation of the terms of such permit shall render the same
null and void. The permit fee shall be five cents (5¢) per square foot of
surface of sidewalk to be constructed and all permit fees shall be paid and
bonds herein provided, filed and approved before any permit shall be issued.
It shall be the duty of police officers and the Superintendent of Streets to
assure that no such work shall be undertaken unless a permit therefor has been
obtained. (Ord. 85-18, 11-12-85)
5-8-2: VIOLATIONS:
Except where sidewalks are to be laid in accordance with the provisions of
special assessment or special taxation ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, lay or rebuild any sidewalk on any portion of the public
ways of the City otherwise than in compliance with the specifications
hereinafter prescribed. Each day that such sidewalk shall remain so
constructed, laid or rebuilt in violation of such specifications shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
5-8-3: GRADE SURFACE:
The grade for the sidewalks shall be established by the Engineer.
5-8-4: SPECIFICATIONS OF MATERIALS:
   (A)   Cement.
      1.   The cement shall conform in every detail to the standard
specifications for Portland cement adopted by the American Society for Testing
Materials.
      2.   No short weight packages nor damaged or lumpy cement shall be used.
      3.   Each bag shall contain not less than ninety four (94) pounds net
weight of cement, which shall be considered equivalent to one cubic foot (1 cu.
ft. in proportioning the materials.
      4.   All cement shall be delivered on the work site in original packages
and kept dry until used.
   (B)   Sand.
      1.   The sand shall be of the quality known as torpedo, and must be
clean, dry, free from dust loam and dirt, and of the sizes ranging from one
eighth inch (1/8") down to the finest, with the coarser particles
predominating, in such proportions that the voids as determined by saturation
shall not exceed thirty three (33) pounds per cubic foot. No wind-drifted sand
shall be used.
   (C)   Granite Screenings.
      1.   The granite screenings shall be clean, free from dust, and of sizes
ranging from one quarter inch (1/4") down to the finest.
   (D)   Stone.
      1.   The stone shall be of the best quality of broken limestone or other
durable stone equally good for concrete purposes.
   (E)   Gravel.
      1.   The gravel shall be of the best quality, and it shall be thoroughly
washed.
   (F)   Slag.
      1.   The slag shall be of the best quality of crushed air-cooled blast
furnace slag, and it shall be capable of producing a concrete that will develop
a crushing strength equal to that of concrete made with similar proportions of
broken limestone or washed gravel.
   (G)   Clean Materials.
      1.   When delivered on the work site, the materials shall be deposited on
flooring and kept clean until used in the concrete. The water shall be clean
and free from harmful chemicals.
5-8-5: PREPARING OF CONCRETE:
The concrete when mixed by hand shall be mixed on movable water tight platforms
of such size as shall accommodate the manipulations hereinafter specified. All
materials are to be measured loose by volume.
   (A)   The cement, sand and washed gravel shall be mixed in the following
proportions: part of cement, two and one half (21/2) parts of sand and five (5)
parts of broken stone, washed gravel or crushed air-cooled blast furnace slag.
   (B)   The sand and cement shall be thoroughly mixed dry, to which sufficient
water shall be added, and then made into a stiff mortar. The stone, slag or
washed gravel, after having been sprinkled with water, shall then be
immediately incorporated in the mortar and the mass thoroughly mixed by turning
over with shovels, hoes, or mechanical mixers at least three (3) times, or
until each particle of stone is thoroughly covered with mortar.
   (C)   When a mechanical concrete mixer is used, the materials must be
proportioned dry and then deposited in the mixer, all at the some time. The
mixer must produce a concrete of uniform consistency and color, with the stones
thoroughly mixed with water, sand and cement.
   (D)   The concrete used in sidewalk construction, when tested in the form of
six inch (6") cubes at the age of one month, shall develop a crushing strength
of not less than one thousand seven hundred fifty (1,750) pounds per square
inch.
   (E)   Retempering mortar or concrete, namely, remixing with water after it
has partially set, shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Ready-mix concrete conforming to the above specifications may be used.
5-8-6: SUBGRADE:
A subgrade shall be first prepared by cutting down or filling up the surface of
the ground to a grade which shall be ten inches (10") below final sidewalk
grade.
Wherever filling is necessary to bring the foundation to subgrade, such filling
shall be composed of earth or other material equally good for filling purposes,
free from animal or vegetable matter, place in such a manner as to leave a berm
of one foot (1') on each side of and flush with the top of the completed walk
(except where the walks are laid full width of the sidewalk space), and shall
slope to the natural surface of the ground at the rate of one and one half feet
(11/2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical.
Where necessary the foundation shall be compacted by wetting, rolling or
ramming until solid and unyielding.
Soft and spongy places not affording a firm foundation shall be dug out and
filled with earth, or other material equally good for filling purposes, free
from animal or vegetable matter, thoroughly compacted.
Upon the subgrade thus prepared shall be placed a layer of cinders or other
porous material equally good for the purposes of a foundation, which shall be
five inches (5") in depth after being thoroughly compacted.
5-8-7: DEPTH AND SPECIFICATION OF CONCRETE:
Upon said foundation shall be placed a layer of Portland cement concrete four
and one half inches (41/2") in thickness; the concrete shall consist of one
part of cement, equal in quality to the best Portland cement, two and one half
(21/2) equal parts of clean torpedo sand, of sizes ranging from one eighth inch
(1/8") down to the finest, and five (5) parts of crushed limestone or other
stone equally as good for concrete purposes, washed gravel or clean, crushed,
air-cooled blast furnace slag of the best quality, all of which shall be free
from dust, dirt or other foreign substances, and of sizes measuring not less
than one fourth inch (1/4") or more than one inch (1") in any dimension; said
cement and sand shall be thoroughly mixed dry, into which shall be incorporated
the five (5) parts of stone, gravel or slag, as specified above, after which
said mixture shall be moistened with water and the whole mass thoroughly mixed
and placed on said foundation and rammed until solid. Before the layer last
described has set, a finishing layer of Portland cement concrete one half inch
(1/2") in thickness shall be placed thereon; said layer shall consist of two
(2) parts of cement, equal in quality to the best Portland cement, and three
(3) parts of torpedo sand or crushed granite screenings, thoroughly mixed dry,
then moistened with water and mixed again to form a mortar, which shall be
spread in such a manner as to insure a smooth and even surface after being
thoroughly troweled.
All work on five (5), six (6), ten (10), twelve (12) fifteen (15), eighteen
(18), twenty (20), twenty four (24) and twenty five (25) foot walks shall be
laid out in blocks five feet by five feet (5' x 5') in size; on all other
widths of walk the stones shall be of uniform size and have a surface of not
less than twenty four square feet (24 sq. ft.) nor more than thirty six square
feet (36 sq. ft.).
5-8-8: EXPANSION JOINTS:
Expansion joints shall be provided for by leaving a space one half inch (1/2")
wide between the walks and the curbs at street and alley returns and spaces one
half inch (1/2") wide at intervals of forty feet (40') on the sidewalk proper.
5-8-9: MARKINGS ON SIDEWALK:
Before the top or finishing of concrete walks has set, the contractor or person
building the walk shall place in such walk in front of each lot or parcel of
property a stamp or plate giving the name and address of the contractor or
person building the walk and the year in which the work was done.
5-8-10: CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement or any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same; without first
having secured a permit therefor. Application for such permit shall be made to
the Collector and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair,
the extent thereof, and the person who is to do the actual construction work.
5-8-11: BOND:
Each applicant, other than an owner or occupant, shall file a bond with the
collector in the amount of five thousand five hundred dollars ($5,500.00) with
surety to be approved by the board, conditioned to indemnify the municipality
for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of
doing the same. In addition to said bond, each person, other than an owner or
occupant, shall deposit with the collector the cash sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) to guarantee to the village and to reimburse the village for water
used, inspection fees, engineer fees, damage incurred to streets or parkways,
and permit fees. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 9
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
5-9-1: Poplar And Cottonwood Trees Prohibited
5-9-2: Trimming
5-9-3: Injury
5-9-4: Advertisements Or Notices
5-9-5: Dangerous Trees
5-9-6: Wires
5-9-7: Gas Pipes
5-9-8: Excavations
5-9-9: Landscaping
5-9-1: POPLAR AND COTTONWOOD TREES PROHIBITED:
No person shall plant, or cause to be planted, in the village, any poplar or
cottonwood trees. (1965 Code)
5-9-2: TRIMMING:
All trees kept, maintained or cultivated in any of the streets or public places
of the village, the branches of which extend over the sidewalks or streets,
shall be trimmed at least seven feet (7') above the ground so that the branches
thereof will not interfere with persons using the walks or streets. (1965 Code)
5-9-3: INJURY:
It shall be unlawful to injure any trees or shrubs planted or growing in any
public place, except by permission of the superintendent of streets. (1965
Code)
5-9-4: ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any signs, advertisements or notices to any tree
or shrub in any such public place. (1965 Code)
5-9-5: DANGEROUS TREES:
Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the abutting premises or
of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
The superintendent of streets may trim any such tree or shrub or remove any
such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be done away with. (1965 Code)
5-9-6: WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of the
board.
Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys or
other public places, shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise
concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away from trees
and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall keep all such
trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed subject to the
supervision of the superintendent of streets so that there shall be no injury
done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(1965 Code)
5-9-7: GAS PIPES:
Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the village shall keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees,
shrubs or persons. (1965 Code)
5-9-8: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub wherever possible.
(1965 Code)
5-9-9: LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Planting Requirements For Parkways:
      1.   No building permit shall be issued for any new construction nor for
any addition (except to existing single-family dwellings) unless the applicant
provides escrow monies in an amount equal to the trees that shall be planted in
the public parkway adjoining the premises to be improved (unless the building
commissioner shall show good cause in writing that such planting will not be in
the best interest of the village). Such trees shall be planted approximately
fifty feet (50') apart at a rate of not less than one tree for each fifty feet
(50') of frontage or part thereof;
      2.   All such trees shall be not less than two and one-half inches (21/
2") in diameter, of such species, quality and placement as may be approved by
the building commissioner, with regard to cleanliness, ease of maintenance,
resistance to disease and adverse conditions. Such trees shall be a variety of
species so as to avoid heavy concentrations of a single species.
   (B)   Planting Trees And Shrubs On Public Rights Of Way And Parkways: Except
in the manner specified in this section, it is unlawful for any person, firm,
or corporation to plant, maintain or set out any tree, bush, shrub or plant in
or upon any right of way or parkway thereon within the corporate limits of the
village of Posen. Also, no persons, firm or corporation shall place or maintain
stones, boulders, rock gardens or ornamentation on any such right of way or
parkway within twenty four inches (24") of the inside line of the curb or, if
there is no curb, then within twenty four inches (24") of the edge of the
pavement. Also, said stones, boulders, rock gardens or ornamentation shall not
exceed twenty four inches (24") in height.
   (C)   Species Of Trees Approved; Permit Required: The following trees are
approved species for planting on any parkway and public right of way:
      1.   The following trees are the approved species for planting on
parkways and public rights of way that are not under power lines:
Common Name  Botanical Name
Common Name            Botanical Name
Blue ash               Fraxinus quadrangulata
Crimean linden         Tilia x euchlora
Green ash              Fraxinus pennsylvanica
Green mountain sugar   Acer saccharum
Hackberry              Celtis occidentalis
Hesse European ash     Fraxinus excelsior
                       Hessel
Littleleaf linden      Tilia cordata
Maple                  Green Mountain
Northern red oak       Quercus borealis
Norway maple           Acer platanoides
Red maple              Acer rubrum
Shingle oak            Quercus imbricaria
Silver linden          Tilia tomentosa
Thornless honeylocust  Gleditsia triacanthos
                       Inermis
 
The trees listed above shall not be planted under power lines.
2. Oaks shall not be planted in paved or parking areas. No trees which might
impair vision shall be planted on any parkway or any public right of way. No
person shall plant, maintain or set out any bush, tree, shrub or plant on any
parkway or public right of way without first obtaining a permit therefor from
the building commissioner.
3. The following low trees and tall shrubs are the approved species for
planting on parkways and rights of way that are under power lines:
Common Name  Botanical Name
Common Name                      Botanical Name
Alleghany serviceberry           Amelanchier laevis
Alleghany viburnum               Viburnum x
Allegheny                        Rhytidophylloides
American hornbeam                Carpinus caroliniana
American plum                    Prunus americana
Amur maple                       Acer ginnala
Apple serviceberry               Amelanchier x grandiflora
Arrowwood viburnum               Viburnum dentatum
Bailey redosier                  Cornus sericea
Blackhaw viburnum                Viburnum prunifolium
Cheyenne privet                  Ligustrum amurense
Common lilac                     Syringa vulgaris
Common witchhazel                Hamamelis virginiana
Dogwood                          f. baileyi
European cranberrybush viburnum  Viburnum opulus
Fernleaf buckthorn               Rhamnus frangula Asplenifolia
Flowering crabapples             Malus Adams
                                 Malus Bob White
                                 Malus Donald Wyman
Gray dogwood                     Cornus racemosa
Hawthorn                         var. inermis
Hedge maple                      Acer campestre
Highbush cranberry viburnum      Viburnum trilobum
Hophornbeam                      Ostrya virginiana
Japanese flowering crabapple     Floribunda Mary Potter
                                 Floribunda Profusion
                                 Floribunda Red Jade
                                 Floribunda Red Jewel
                                 Floribunda Selkirk
                                 Floribunda Sentinel
                                 Floribunda Snowdrift
Japanese tree lilac              Syringa reticulata
Many flowered cotoneaster        Cotoneaster multiflora
Merrill magnolia                 Magnolia x loebneri Merrill
Mohican wayfaring                Viburnum lantana
Nannyberry viburnum              Viburnum lentago
Purple-leaved sand cherry        Prunus x cistena
Sargent crabapple                Malus sargentii
Sargent cranberry viburnum       Viburnum sargentii
Saucer magnolia                  Magnolia x soulangiana
Shining sumac                    Rhus copallina
Smooth sumac                     Rhus glabra
Staghorn sumac                   Rhus typhina
Star magnolia                    Magnolia stellata
Thicket serviceberry             Amelanchier canadensis
Thornless cockspur               Crataegus crusgalli
Tree viburnum                    Mohican
Vaughn hawthorn                  Crataegus x Vaughn
Vernal witchhazel                Hamamelis vernalis
Washington hawthorn              Crataegus phaenopyrum
White fringetree                 Chionanthus virginicus
Winged euonymus                  Euonymus alatus
Winter king hawthorn             Crataegus viridis Winter King
 
The trees listed above shall only be planted on public rights of way parkways
that are under power lines.
   (D)   Breaking, Cutting Or Injuring Trees Or Shrubs: No person, firm or
corporation shall destroy, break, cut, deface, trim or in any way injure or
interfere with any tree, bush, shrub or plant growing in any parkway or public
right of way of the village except by written permit of the building
commissioner. Provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to the removal under the direction of the village of any
root, tree, shrub, or part thereof whenever the same shall be found necessary
in the construction of any sidewalk, sewer, pavement or other public
improvements, or in the maintenance thereof.
   (E)   Attaching Wire, Rope Or Signs To Trees Or Shrubs Prohibited: No
person, firm or corporation, other than the village of Posen, shall fasten or
attach any wire, rope, sign, handbill or other thing to any tree, bush, shrub,
or plant growing or standing in a public right of way or parkway.
   (F)   Utility Pipes And Wires Prohibited From Injuring Trees Or Shrubs: Any
person or company maintaining any gas pipe, electric or telephone wire in the
village, in the absence of provisions in a franchise agreement, shall maintain
such pipes or wires in a manner to avoid injury to any tree, bush, shrub or
plant in the public right of way or parkway.
   (G)   Obstructing Air Or Water Flows: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, except with a written permit from the building commissioner, to
place or maintain upon the ground in any public right of way or parkway any
stone, cement, or other impervious material or substance in such a manner as
may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of any tree, bush,
shrub or plant in any such public right of way or parkway unless otherwise
provided for in such written permit. There must be maintained above the base of
the trunk of each tree in such public right of way or parkway at least nine (9)
square feet of ground for a tree three inches (3") in diameter and for every
two (2) additional inches of such diameter there must be an increase of at
least one square foot of open ground.
   (H)   Permit Required To Remove Trees: If a tree is to be removed from a
parkway or other public right of way having a diameter of at least one inch
(1"), a permit therefor must be obtained from the building commissioner. If
such a permit is approved, and unless the tree is diseased, dead, undesirable
or prohibited, as stated in this section, a new tree having a diameter of at
least the diameter of the tree removed and of a species authorized by the
building commissioner must be planted without expense to the village, in the
vicinity of the tree removed.
   (I)   Violations Declared A Public Nuisance: Any and all trees, bushes,
shrubs or plants now growing or hereafter planted, or any stone, boulder, rock
garden or ornamentation set out, in, or upon the parkway or public right of way
of the village, in violation of the terms of this section, are and each of
them, is hereby expressly declared a public nuisance and subject to abatement
as such. Any such trees, bushes, shrubs or plants or any such stones so planted
or set out, contrary to law, shall be abated as a common nuisance by the
building commissioner. (Ord. 2003-05, 4-22-2003)
CHAPTER 10
PLANTS AND WEEDS AS A NUISANCE
SECTION:
5-10-1: Weeds; Declared a Nuisance
5-10-2: Height
5-10-3: Barberry Bushes
5-10-4: Removal; Notice
5-10-5: Abatement
5-10-6: Lien
5-10-7: Foreclosure of Lien
5-10-1: WEEDS; DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
5-10-2: HEIGHT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding twelve inches (12") anywhere in the Village; any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
5-10-3: BARBERRY BUSHES:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the bush
of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further known as Berberis
vulgaris or its horticultural varieties within the Village.
5-10-4: REMOVAL; NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days.
5-10-5: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
Village Health Officer may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account
of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by
such owner or occupant.
5-10-6: LIEN:
Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. Whenever a
bill for such charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days after it has been
rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut,
and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
address is known.
Provided, however, that failure of the Clerk to record such claim or to mail
such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in the
following Section.
5-10-7: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
Village.
The Village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 1969; 1969)
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC TELEPHONES
SECTION:
5-11-1: Outdoor Public Telephones on Private Property or Attached to Buildings
5-11-2: Pay Telephones on Public Ways
5-11-1: OUTDOOR PUBLIC TELEPHONES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR ATTACHED TO BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Permit Required: The installation or continued maintenance of an
outdoor public telephone, including any telephone booth, on any property or
attached to the outside of any building or structure shall be allowed provided
a permit is issued by the Village Clerk permitting the installation or
continued maintenance of such outdoor public telephone.
   (B)   Public Hearing; Permit Issuance: The Village Clerk shall only issue a
permit to install or continue maintenance of an outdoor public telephone upon
the direction of the Economic Committee of the Village Board made after it has
conducted a hearing to determine whether such a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Conduct of Hearing by Economic Committee: The Economic Committee of
the Village Board shall conduct a hearing to determine whether a permit
allowing installation or continued maintenance of an outdoor public telephone
shall be issued. This hearing will be conducted within thirty (30) days of
receipt of an application by the office of the Village Clerk requesting a
permit to install or continue maintenance of an outdoor public telephone. The
Village Clerk shall prepare an application form which shall include appropriate
information identifying the applicant, the applicant's business address,
telephone number and the proposed or existing location of the public telephone.
The Village Clerk will give all filed applications to the chairperson of the
Economic Committee who shall then immediately notify the Trustee of the
Building Department where a permit is sought that an application has been made.
   (D)   Committee Determination: The Economic Committee shall authorize
issuance of the permit only after hearing and determining, by a majority vote,
that:
      1.   The placement and location of the public telephone will not be
detrimental to the public welfare; and
      2.   The placement and location of the public telephone will not be
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which it is
or will be located; and
      3.   The public telephone is not or will not be located outside of or
attached to the outside of any building or structure in such a manner as to
impede or restrict the movement or access of the public on or about any public
way.
   (E)   Failure of Committee to Act: Should the Economic Committee fail to act
on the application within thirty (30) days of the date the application for
permit is made in the office of the Village Clerk, said permit shall be
considered to be granted.
   (F)   Appeal Decision of Committee: If the applicant desires to appeal a
decision of the Economic Committee denying a permit to install or continue
maintenance of an outdoor public telephone, the applicant may do so by filing a
written notice of appeal with the office of the Village Clerk within ten (10)
business days of the date of the decision of the Economic Committee. The appeal
shall be to the entire Village Board and shall be heard within thirty (30) days
after the date the notice of appeal is filed. The Village Clerk shall prepare
an appropriate notice of appeal form.
The Village Council may reverse or affirm the decision of the Economic
Committee by a majority vote. The Mayor shall vote to break all ties.
The decision of the Village Board shall be final.
   (G)   Removal of Telephone for Noncompliance: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Section, no outdoor public telephone may be installed on or
after the effective date of this Section unless a permit has been obtained for
the telephone pursuant to this Section.
Any outdoor public telephone installed prior to the effective date of this
Section for which a permit has not been obtained must be removed no later than
thirty (30) days after, unless application for a permit and a permit allowing
continued maintenance of the outdoor public telephone has been issued pursuant
to the terms of this Section.
   (H)   Revocation of Permit; Hearing: Any permit issued pursuant to this
Section shall be subject to revocation if the Economic Committee makes a
determination, after written notice and a hearing, that:
      1.   The public telephone is detrimental to the public welfare; or
      2.   The placement and location of the public telephone is injurious to
other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which it is located; or
      3.   The public telephone is located outside of or attached to a building
or structure in such a manner as to impede or restrict the movement or access
of the public on or about any public way.
The notice will be sent to the existing permittee at the address shown in the
permit application for the location in question. The hearing shall be conducted
in accordance with the provisions of subsection
5-11-1(C). A right of appeal shall exist and any appeal shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
5-11-1(F).
   (I)   Permit Fee: Every application for a permit filed pursuant to this
Section shall be accompanied by a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
property affected if the application is filed on or before May 1 and two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each property affected if the application is
filed thereafter. No other fee shall apply to the filing of the application.
The permittee shall pay an annual permit fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
on or before May 1 of each and every year subsequent to the year in which an
original permit is issued. The fee shall be paid in the office of the Village
Clerk.
   (J)   Definitions: As used in this Section:
   PUBLIC TELEPHONE: Any self-service or coin or credit card operated
telephone.
   PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, parkway, road, street, highway, alley, lane,
court, structure, place, trail and/or bridge under the ownership control or
responsibility of the Village or constructed or erected for the use and/or
benefit of the public.
   (K)   Penalty: Any person who installs or continues maintenance of an
outdoor public telephone in violation of the terms and provisions of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Failure to obtain an annual permit on or before May 1 of each year shall be
considered a specific violation of this Section.
Enforcement proceeding to correct any such violation may be filed by the
Building Department and processed by the Code Hearing Department of the
Village.
Any public telephone that is found by the Hearing Officer, after a hearing
conducted pursuant to this Section, to have been installed or maintained
without a permit in violation of this Section shall be subject to immediate
removal by the Village at the owner's expense.
   (L)   Severability Clause: If any subsection of this Section is determined
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable in whole or in part,
such determination shall have no affect on those subsections of this Section
that are unaffected by the courts decision. Enforcement of this Section shall
continue unless the effect of the decision renders this Section unenforceable.
   (M)   Not Applicable to Interstate Commerce: No provisions of this Section
or any permit issued pursuant to this Section may be applied to any transaction
in interstate commerce to the extent to which such business may not, under the
Constitution and the statutes of the United States, be made the subject of
regulation by the Village. (Ord. 94-10, 3-23-94)
5-11-2: PAY TELEPHONES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   (A)   Contracts for Installation and Maintenance; Board Authority: The Board
shall have the authority to enter into contracts that grant to one or more
persons, subject to the conditions set forth in the contract and this Section
the privilege of installing and maintaining pay telephones in the public way.
Any such contract must be approved as to form and legality by the Village
Attorney. In the administration of this Section, the Board shall consult and
cooperate with all appropriate Village Departments. The Board may at any time
cause to be advertised a request for proposals relating to such contracts.
   (B)   Terms of Contract: Such contracts and the method of awarding such
contracts shall, to the greatest extent possible, be designed to:
      1.   Discourage illegal drug sales and other related criminal activity
that are sometimes associated with and facilitated by pay telephones in the
public way;
      2.   Reduce the disturbances that pay telephones may tend to promote in
residential areas;
      3.   Reduce visual clutter in the public way;
      4.   Reduce the unnecessary obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic;
      5.   Ensure the availability of pay telephones where they are needed for
lawful purposes;
      6.   Provide adequate access to pay telephones by disabled persons; and
      7.   Generate revenue for the Village.
   (C)   Certificate of Service Authority Required: Any contract entered into
pursuant to this Section shall provide that the privileges granted by the
contract are subject to the Village Board's authority to order the removal of a
pay telephone pursuant to subsection (F) of this Section. Any such contract
shall also permit the Village Board or the Mayor to require pay telephones in
the public way to have special features designed to reduce criminal activity.
In addition, the contract must provide that the Board members must be notified
of the location of any pay telephone that is to be situated in the public way
in his or her ward pursuant to this Section. No person shall be awarded a
contract under this Section unless the person has a valid certificate of
service authority to provide pay telephone service granted by the Illinois
Commerce Commission.
   (D)   Compliance with Contract: No person may install a pay telephone in the
public way on or after the effective date of this Section unless installation
is made pursuant to a contract entered into under this Section. Beginning May
1, 1994, no pay telephone may remain in the public way other than pursuant to a
contract entered into under this Section. Any pay telephone installed or
maintained in violation of this subsection shall be subject to immediate
removal at the owner's expense by the City.
   (E)   List of Telephone Locations: No later than thirty (30) days after the
effective date of this Section, every person who owns or maintains a pay
telephone in the public way must file with the Mayor a list of the locations of
all such telephones owned or maintained by that person. Any pay telephone in
the public way that does not appear on such a list shall be subject to
immediate removal at the owner's expense.
   (F)   Removal by Order of the Board: The Village Board may at any time after
May 1, 1994, or at any time after the effective date of this Section if
pursuant to a contract under this Section, by ordinance order the removal of a
particular pay telephone that is in the public way. Any pay telephone that is
not removed within fourteen (14) days after an ordinance ordering its removal
is adopted shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner's expense by the
Village.
   (G)   Reclamation by Owner; Payment of Costs: Any pay telephone removed by
the Village pursuant to this Section may be reclaimed by its owner within
thirty (30) days after its removal. The owner must reimburse the Village for
its removal and storage costs before any such telephone may be reclaimed. Such
costs shall also include the costs of removing any installation ancillary to
the pay telephone, and the costs of restoring the public way to its original
condition. Any telephone not so reclaimed may be disposed of as unclaimed
property.
   (H)   Penalty: Any person who installs or maintains a pay telephone in
violation of this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (I)   Definitions: As used in this Section:
   PAY TELEPHONE: Any self-service or coin or credit card operated telephone.
   PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, parkway, road, street, highway, alley, lane,
court, structure, place, trail and/or bridge under the control or
responsibility of the Village or constructed or erected for the use and/or
benefit of the public.
   (J)   Authority of Mayor: The Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of
the Village Board, shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
to implement this Section.
   (K)   Not Applicable to Interstate Commerce: No provisions of this Section
or any contract issued pursuant to this Section may be applied to any
transaction in interstate commerce to the extent to which such business may
not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the
subject of regulation by the Village. (Ord. 94-11, 3-23-94)
CHAPTER 12
SNOW REMOVAL
SECTION:
5-12-1: Snow Removal Regulations
5-12-1: SNOW REMOVAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   All owners of commercial and multi-family residential property shall
clear their parking lots of all snow and ice following any snowfall of two
inches (2") or more within twenty four (24) hours of such snowfall.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to
remain in or upon any public right-of-way including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, aprons and other paved areas, any material or substance injurious to
persons or property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or for any
agent thereof to plow or otherwise remove accumulated snow from a private
parking lot or drive and deposit same on a public right-of-way, including, but
not limited to, sidewalks, aprons, and other paved areas.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, "deposit" shall include any action to
remove snow from a private lot or drive which results in the leaving of more
than a negligible amount of snow upon the public right-of-way including, but
not limited to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved areas.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or for any
agent thereof to plow snow from a private driveway or parking lot and deposit
same on the property of another without written permission of the other
property owner.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or for any
agent thereof to obstruct, harass, prevent or otherwise interfere with any
employee of the Village engaged in snow removal service or to obstruct, cause
damage to or otherwise interfere with any Village-owned or leased vehicle used
in conjunction with snow removal services.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not less than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first offense and
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each subsequent offense. A
separate and distinct offense shall be held to have been committed each day any
person continues to violate any of the provisions hereof. Any person found to
be in violation of this chapter shall be responsible for any snow removal costs
incurred by the Village.
CHAPTER 13
DROP BOX PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Drop Box Provisions
5-13-2: Permit Required
5-13-3: Application And Permit Requirements
5-13-4: Penalty
5-13-5: Responsibility
5-13-1: DROP BOX PROVISIONS:
A drop box means a box, container, receptacle or similar facility intended to
receive donations or deposits of small household items, books, toys, clothing,
shoes, and/or other salvageable personal property for distribution, resale, or
recycling. No drop box shall be operated, placed, and utilized, except under
the following circumstances:
   (A)   The owner or operator receives written permission from the owner of
the property to place the box.
   (B)   The box is operated by a charity, having a 501(c) (3) designation by
the Internal Revenue Service.
   (C)   The box is placed in a commercial zoning district.
   (D)   The box is cleaned and emptied weekly or when fully loaded.
   (E)   The box is not within 1,000 feet of another drop box.
   (F)   Deposits in the drop box shall only be permitted and accessible when
boxes are attended.
   (G)   The owner or operator posts a sign indicating use of the box when
unattended is prohibited. (2021-19, 12-28-2021)
5-13-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Each drop box shall require a permit, renewable annually at a cost of $150. A
permit may not be transferred, conveyed, or otherwise assigned to another
person or entity. (2021-19, 12-28-2021)
5-13-3: APPLICATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The permit application shall be made on a form provided by the Village. All
Applications shall include:
   (A)   A signed agreement stating that the operator will follow the process
and requirements described in this chapter.
   (B)   A signed authorization from the property owner to allow placement of
the box on the property.
   (C)   A signed acknowledgment of responsibility from the property owner and
the operator for joint and several liability for violations of this chapter.
   (D)   Evidence that the nonprofit has been registered as a nonprofit
organization within the State of Illinois.
   (E)   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone number
of the box operator and property owner.
   (F)   A vicinity map showing the proposed location of the box and the
distance between the site and all existing boxes within 1,000 feet of the
proposed location.
   (G)   A site plan containing property boundary, location of the box,
distance between box and property lines, dimensions of the box, photographs of
the location and adjacent properties.
   (H)   A description of the proposed box locking mechanism.
   (I)   A maintenance plan for the box including pick-up schedule, litter and
trash removal, graffiti removal, etc.
   (J)   Completion of and compliance with any and all other requirements
required by the Code. (2021-19, 12-28-2021)
5-13-4: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter is declared to be prima
facie evidence of an existing violation and a declared public nuisance and
shall be abated by the Building Inspector in accordance with Village Code. Any
person violating the terms of the chapter shall be subject to a $250 fine. Each
day a drop box is in operation in violation of this chapter shall be considered
a separate offence. (2021-19, 12-28-2021)
5-13-5: RESPONSIBILITY:
The property owner and the box operator have joint and several liability for
failure to comply with this chapter, including fees, administrative citations,
civil actions, and/or legal remedies related to the drop box. The property
owner remains liable for any violations imposed by this chapter even if the
property owner has, by agreement, imposed on the operator the duty of complying
with the provisions of this chapter. (2021-19, 12-28-2021)
TITLE VI
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Building Code
6-1-2: Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
6-1-3: Additions, Insertions And Changes
6-1-4: Saving Clause
6-1-5: Date Of Effect
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
A certain document which is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk of the
Village of Posen, being marked and designated as the IRC, IBC, IPMC, ISPSC and
all other applicable international codes in their current editions as published
by the International Code Council, and is hereby adopted as the Building Code
of the Village, for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said International Code Council are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
6-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-12, 7-25-2017)
6-1-2: INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED:
Any and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 91-04, 3-12-1991)
6-1-3: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
100.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of the
Village of Posen hereinafter referred to as "this Code". 100.1 Exceptions:
Deletion of Article 27 Sections 2700.0 through 2707.3 of the BOCA National
Building Code, Eleventh Edition 1990, shall hereinafter not apply to the
Village of Posen Building Code.
103.4 Rehabilitation: Buildings existing prior to 1965 in which there is work
involving repairs, alterations, additions or changes of use, shall be made to
conform to the Code by applying the requirements of Article 32 or the
provisions of Articles 2 through 31.
(Ord. 93-04, 5-25-1993)
114.3.1: Fee Schedule: A fee for each plan examination, building permit, and
inspections shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
   (A)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) cost of the work, plus 1% or a fraction thereof over ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) plus inspection fees.
   (A1)   Garages only: The permit fee will be 1% of the contracted cost, plus
inspection fees, plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) for electrical permit and
the cost of inspection fees.
   (A2)   Fences only: The permit cost shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) plus
inspection fees.
   (A3)   Driveways only: The permit cost shall be assessed at ten cents
($0.10) per square foot plus inspection fees.
   (A4)   Inspections fees: There shall be at least three (3) inspections on
each building constructed within the corporate limits of the Village of Posen.
The fees for the first three (3) inspections shall be one hundred and thirty
five dollars ($135.00) and forty five dollars ($45.00) per inspector per unit.
All inspections fees, plus an eighty dollar ($80.00) service charge shall be
paid to the Village Collector.
(Ord. 2018-08, 5-8-2018)
   (A5)   Construction Deposit 1 : No permit shall be issued for construction
upon any property unless the applicant shall deposit the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) at the time the permit is issued, payable to the special
construction deposits account of the Village of Posen, to guarantee the removal
of all building materials and debris from the building site.
Said deposit shall be refunded, upon approval by the Posen Building
Commissioner, or Building Inspector, provided that all building materials and/
or debris, are removed by the applicant from the building site 1) prior to the
date of occupancy or use of the construction premises, or 2) within ten (10)
days after written notice from the Building Commissioner or Building Inspector
to the applicant- permittee that said building materials and/or debris are to
be removed. Whichever date is earlier.
In the event the applicant-permittee fails to remove all the building materials
and/or debris 1) prior to occupancy or use of the constructed premises, or 2)
prior to the expiration of ten (10) days from the date of said written notice
from the Building Commissioner or Building Inspector to the applicant-
permittee, said five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be forfeited and paid to
the general corporate account of the Village of Posen, as and for the property
of the Village of Posen.
The deposit fund, refund, forfeiture, or payment of the funds referred to in
this Section shall not release, waive, or discharge the applicant-permittee
from any responsibility and/or obligation pursuant to any other section of the
Posen Village Code, provisions of any other ordinance of the Posen Building
Code and/or statutes of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 93-04, 5-25-1993; amd. Ord. 96-23, 9-24-1996)
117.4 Violation; Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this
Code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an
approved plan or directive of the Code Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this Code, shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 93-04, 5-25-1993)
2906.1 Filing: A person shall not erect, install, remove, rehang or maintain
over public property any sign for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this Code until an approved bond shall have been filed in the sum
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) as herein required, or until an
insurance policy shall have been filed for public liability in the amount of
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident and for property
damage in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) as herein required
2 .
(Ord. 91-04, 3-12-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-13 of this title.
2 1. See also section
  6-7-6 of this title.
6-1-4: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing in this chapter or in the Building Code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any character be lost, impaired or affected
by this chapter. (Ord. 91-04, 3-12-1991)
6-1-5: DATE OF EFFECT:
The Village Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this ordinance and cause the
same to be published as required by law and this ordinance shall take full
force and effect from and after this date of final passage. (Ord. 91-04, 3-12-
1991)
CHAPTER 2
PERMITS
SECTION:
6-2-1: When Required; Posting of
6-2-2: Expiration
6-2-3: Waiver of Permit
6-2-4: Application
6-2-5: Plans; Filing of
6-2-6: Restrictions
6-2-7: Issuance of Permits
6-2-8: Alterations in Plans
6-2-9: Exceptions
6-2-10: Permit Fees; Renewal
6-2-11: Inspection Fees
6-2-12: Payment of Accounts
6-2-13: Construction Deposits
6-2-14: Construction Hours
6-2-1: WHEN REQUIRED; POSTING OF:
Before proceeding with the erection, construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, or the excavation of any building or structure, a permit for
such erection, construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal or
excavation shall first be obtained by the owner or his agent from the Building
Commissioner.
As evidence that such permit has been issued, the building permit card must be
posted on the street side of the building when excavation is started, kept
posted during the entire time of construction and for ten (10) days after
completion of the building.
6-2-2: EXPIRATION:
If, after such permit shall have been granted, the operations covered by said
permit shall not be begun within six (6) months after the date thereof, or if
such operations are not completed within one year from said date, then such
permit shall expire by the terms thereof, and no operations thereunder shall be
begun or completed until a renewal of the permit shall be obtained.
6-2-3: WAIVER OF PERMIT:
Nothing in this Chapter contained shall be interpreted or construed to allow
any work included in the permit to be done in any manner contrary to the
requirements of the Building Code and the provisions of this Code.
6-2-4: APPLICATION:
Application for building permits shall be made by the owner or his agent to the
Building Commissioner on forms prepared and kept on file in the office of the
Building Commissioner. Such application shall describe the location of the
proposed work by setting forth the correct legal description of the land upon
which the building, structure or part thereof is to be erected, constructed,
added to, altered, or repaired and the street name and number assigned to the
site; the purpose for which the building or structure is designed to be used;
the length, width and height thereof; the number of rooms; the total cost of
the work proposed to be done under the permit sought; the name and address of
the owner, or his agent or architect; and the name of the licensed general
contractors and subcontractors such as mason, carpenter, sewer builder, plumber
and electrician. Application for a building permit shall also be accompanied by
a plat of survey, showing the proposed location of the building to be erected
on the lot, piece or parcel of land. The application shall also contain an
agreement to be signed by the owner, his agent or architect, conditioned that
he, or his duly authorized agent or architect, if granted the permit sought,
will construct the work in accordance with the description set forth in the
application and accompanying plans and specifications.
6-2-5: PLANS; FILING OF:
Application for building permits shall also be accompanied by plans and
specifications which shall be sufficiently complete that the proposed structure
could be constructed therefrom by a competent contractor, builder or engineer
without further directions of any kind.
All such plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one
eighth inch (1/8") to the foot on paper or cloth, in ink, or by some process
that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured, and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot
lines and the location of the exterior lines of said building in relation
thereto, and the entire ventilating, sewerage and drain pipes and the location
of all plumbing fixtures within such building.
True copies of as much of said plans as may be required, in the opinion of the
Building Commissioner, to illustrate the features of construction and equipment
of the building referred to, shall be filed with the Building Commissioner, and
shall remain on file in his office for a period of six (6) months after the
occupation of such building, after which such plans shall be returned to the
person by whom they have been deposited, upon demand. It shall not be
obligatory upon the Building Commissioner to retain such plans in his custody
for more than six (6) months after the occupation of the building to which they
relate.
Complete plans and specifications of buildings for public or business use for
which permits are granted shall remain on file permanently in the Building
Commissioner's Office.
In all cases, the approved plan or plans, together with building permits, must
be kept on the premises while the work is in progress.
Seal Required: Plans and specifications must be signed by and: sealed by a
Licensed Architect or Structural Engineer as provided in "An Act to provide for
the Licensing of Architects and to regulate the practice of architecture as a
profession and to repeal certain acts therein named", approved June 24, 1919,
or as amended, commonly known as "The Illinois Architectural Act" and in "An
Act to revise the law in relation to the regulation of the practice of
structural engineering", approved June 24, 1919 as amended. (1-71)
6-2-6: RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other Section or provision of the Posen Village Code:
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any permit authorizing the
erection, construction; alteration, addition or repair of any building or
structure in any "C-District, Two- Family Dwellings", "D-District, Apartments",
"E-District, Business", "F-District, Business", "G-District, Industrial", or
"Special Use" Zoning District, as defined in Chapters "1" through "7", and
"9A", Title XI, of the Posen Village Code unless the application for said
erection, construction, alteration, addition, or repair, and the plans,
specifications, drawings, and documents, pertaining to said application shall
have been approved by the Board of Trustees and Village President and said
permit directed to be issued by majority vote upon said application by the
Board and President.
In its review of said applications for permits, the Board of Trustees and
Village President will ascertain the compliance of the application with
applicable Building, Zoning, and other Ordinances, and may require reports
pertaining thereto from the Building Commissioner, Zoning Administrator, Fire
Department Fire Protection Officer, Health Inspector, Electrical Inspector,
and/or any other Village official, and shall require that the plans and
documents submitted with said application for permit clearly show that such
building or structure with all its appurtenances, foundations, and attachments
can be erected entirely within the limits of the lot or tract of land upon
which it is proposed to erect such building or structure as provided by the
Building Code and the Zoning regulations of the Village, and no permit to
construct or alter any such building or structure shall authorize the use of
any part of any public highway or other public ground for the construction or
maintenance of such building or structure except as provided by the Building
Code.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any permit authorizing the
erection, construction, alteration, addition or repair of any building or
structure in any "A-District, Single Family Dwellings", or "B-District, Single
Family Dwelling", as defined in Chapters "1", "2", and "3", Title XI of the
Posen Village Code unless the application therefor complies with the Posen
Building and Zoning Codes, and other applicable ordinances, and unless the
plans submitted for his approval clearly show that such building or structure
with all its appurtenances, foundations, and attachments can be erected
entirely within the limits of the lot or tract of land upon which it is
proposed to erect such building or structure, as provided by the Building Code
and the Zoning regulations of the Village, and no permit to construct or alter
any building or structure shall authorize the use of any part of any public
highway or other public ground for the construction or maintenance of such
building or structure except as provided by the Building Code.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any permit for the
construction or maintenance of any balcony, canopy, or sign extending over any
public highway or other public ground unless permits therefor have been
obtained from the Village Board and Village President pursuant to an ordinance
specifically authorizing the same.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any building permit for
single family residential building construction in subdivision where no alleys
are provided to service the lot unless the building or structure is so
constructed on the lot to provide room for a side drive. (1976 Code)
6-2-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Permits authorized to be issued and required to be obtained under the
Building Code shall be promptly issued by the Building Commissioner when the
application, approval of plans, filing of frontage consents (if any required)
and giving of notices are all completed as in said code provided. This shall
not be construed to deny to said Building Commissioner ample time to
investigate any matters.
   (B)   No permit herein provided to be issued for the erection, construction,
alteration, addition, repair or excavation for any wall, structure, building,
or any portion thereof, for which a fee is prescribed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be in force until the fees prescribed therefor shall have been
paid.
   (C)   Before issuing a permit to an applicant for the erection of any
building, the Building Commissioner shall ascertain:
      1.   Whether a sidewalk, curb, gutter and improved street are in place in
front of the lot or premises to be built upon, or, in the case of corner lots
or premises on the front and side facing the streets.
      2.   If a sidewalk, curb, gutter and improved street are not in place,
the Building Commissioner, before issuing a permit, shall contact the
Superintendent of Streets and inform him of this fact.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to estimate
the cost of the permit and construction of the sidewalk, curb, gutter and
improved street, and if a driveway is desired, of the driveway. He shall
transmit this estimate to the Building Commissioner who, before issuing a
building permit, shall ascertain that the sidewalk permit has been issued for
the lot or premises and a deposit equal to the estimate of sidewalk, curb,
gutter and improved street is deposited with the Collector.
      4.   Upon completion of the sidewalk or driveway the money deposited
shall be returned to the applicant. Money deposited for curb, gutter and
improved street will be held in escrow to pay for curb, gutter and improved
street at the location specified in the building permit and for no other
purpose.
      5.   The requirements of this section shall not apply to subdivisions
where a subdivider's bond has been approved. (Ord. 96-35, 11-12-1996)
6-2-8: ALTERATIONS IN PLANS:
It shall be unlawful to alter, or in any way modify plans which have been
approved by the Building Commissioner, as hereinbefore provided. If, during the
progress of such work, it is desired to deviate, in any manner affecting the
construction or other essentials of the building, from the terms of the
application or drawing, notice of such intention to alter or deviate, shall be
given to the Building Commissioner, and his written assent shall first be
obtained before the alteration or deviation may be made; but alterations in
buildings which do not involve any change in their structural parts, or of
their stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other communications or ingress or
egress, or in lighting or ventilation or in plumbing or electric wiring, and
that are not in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or the
provisions of the zoning regulations of the Village, may be made without the
permission of the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 96-37, 11-12-1996)
6-2-9: EXCEPTIONS:
The Building Commissioner may issue permits for the erection of garages or
small one-story buildings, not used for residence, upon the description given
in the application and not accompanied by drawings, and this shall apply also
to alterations and repairs of buildings whenever, in the judgment of the
Building Commissioner, drawings are not necessary to show the full character of
the work to be done. (Ord. 96-38, 11-12-1996)
6-2-10: PERMIT FEES; RENEWAL:
   (A)   The fees to be charged for building permits issued for altering and
repairing a building shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for the first ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) cost of the work, plus one percent (1%)
thereafter and plus a forty five dollar ($45.00) building inspection fee, plus
a forty five dollar ($45.00) plumbing inspection fee when needed.
      1.   Erecting Or Adding To A Building: The fees to be charged for
building permits issued for erecting or adding to a building shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the first ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) cost of the
work, plus one percent (1%) thereafter, plus a forty five dollar ($45.00)
building inspection fee, plus a forty five dollar ($45.00) plumbing inspection
fee when required.
      2.   Garages Only: The building permit cost shall be one percent (1%) of
the contracted cost plus an inspection fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) for
each inspection. The electrical permit cost shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) plus an inspection fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) for each
inspection.
      3.   Fences Only: The permit cost shall be forty dollars ($40.00), plus
an inspection fee of forty five dollars ($45.00).
      4.   Driveways Only: The permit cost shall be assessed at ten cents
($0.10) per square foot plus an inspection fee of forty five dollars ($45.00).
(Ord. 2018-06, 5-8-2018)
   (B)   Any building permits issued as herein provided, and which have expired
by the terms hereof as provided in section
6-2-2 of this chapter may be renewed by payment of an additional fee of ten
percent (10%) of the original fee. Unless a permit has expired by reason of
failure to commence operations within six (6) months of the date of expiration
is renewed, all fees paid therefor shall be forfeited to the Village.
   (C)   In addition to the permit fees named in this section, there shall be
paid such charges for water used in connection with building operations as are
fixed by the schedule of water rates now in force or as amended by the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   All fees paid shall be paid to the Village before issuance of any
permits provided herein. (Ord. 2012-01, 1-10-2012)
6-2-11: INSPECTION FEES:
   (A)   There shall be at least three (3) inspections of each building in
Class B and as many as deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner on Classes
D, F, and G. The Building Commissioner, electrical and plumbing inspectors
shall issue a certificate for each inspection as the inspection is made. The
fee for the first three (3) inspections by each inspector shall be one hundred
thirty five dollars ($135.00) and ninety dollars ($90.00) for each unit after.
All inspection fees, plus an eighty dollar ($80.00) service charge shall be
paid to the Village Collector.
   (B)   In residential buildings consisting of more than one resident unit, an
additional inspection fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) per inspection will be
charged for each residential unit located within the said building.
   (C)   In the event that a reinspection is deemed necessary by the Building
Commissioner, electrical or plumbing inspector for noncompliance with existing
codes, or inability to gain access to premises to perform an inspection as
scheduled by the general contractor, a fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) shall
be charged for each additional inspection along with a twenty dollar ($20.00)
service charge payable to the Village Collector prior to issuance of the
required occupancy permit. (Ord. 2018-07, 5-8-2018)
6-2-12: PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS:
No permit shall be issued for construction upon any property unless all taxes,
special assessments, weed removal charges, or other debts due to the Village by
the property owner or permit applicant have been paid in full prior to, or
concurrent with, the application for building permit. (Ord. 71-12, 1-1971)
6-2-13: CONSTRUCTION DEPOSITS:
No permit shall be issued for construction upon any property unless the
applicant shall deposit the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), at the time
the permit is issued, payable to the special construction deposits escrow
account of the Village, to guarantee the removal of all building materials and
debris from the building site.
Said deposit shall be refunded, upon approval by the Posen Building
Commissioner; provided, that all building materials and/or debris, are removed
by the applicant from the building site: a) prior to the date of occupancy or
use of the construction premises, or b) within ten (10) days after written
notice from the Building Commissioner to the applicant-permittee that said
building materials and/or debris are to be removed, whichever date is earlier.
In the event the applicant-permittee fails to remove all the building materials
and/or debris: a) prior to occupancy or use of the constructed premises, or b)
prior to the expiration of ten (10) days from the date of said written notice
from the Building Commissioner to the applicant-permittee, said five hundred
dollars ($500.00) shall be forfeited and paid to the general corporate account
of the Village, as and for the property of the Village.
The deposit fund, refund, forfeiture, or payment of the funds referred to in
this section shall not release, waive or discharge the applicant-permittee from
any responsibility and/or obligation pursuant to any other section of this
Code, provisions of any other ordinance of the Posen Building Code and/or
Statutes of the State. (Ord. 96-40, 11-12-1996)
6-2-14: CONSTRUCTION HOURS: 
It shall be unlawful to allow any building or construction operations
(including construction-related noises, such as the delivery of equipment or
materials or the operation of tools, machinery, or any apparatus) on private
property in the residential area from sunset to 7:00 a.m. Monday thru Friday,
and sunset to eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. on Saturday and Sunday. (Ord. 2020-19,
6-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
STREET OCCUPATION
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Application for Permit
6-3-3: Time Limit
6-3-4: Space Limit
6-3-5: Space Limit Extension
6-3-6: Sidewalk Obstruction
6-3-7: Barricades; Red Lanterns
6-3-8: Bond
6-3-9: Fees
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or store upon the street,
parkway, sidewalk or alley abutting upon or adjacent to the lot or tract, upon
which any building or structure is being erected, constructed, altered, or
repaired, or upon any street, parkway, sidewalk or alley within the Village,
any building materials, tools, apparatus, or structure designed or intended to
be used in the erection, construction, alteration or repair of buildings,
unless a street occupation permit is first obtained from the Building
Commissioner. Unless such street occupation permit is obtained, all such
building materials, tools, apparatus or structures, when first delivered, shall
be placed entirely within the boundary lines of such lot or tract, and shall so
remain until the completion of such building or structure or until finally
removed from such lot or tract. (1965 Code)
6-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for street occupation permits shall be made to the Building
Commissioner and shall describe the location of the street, parkway, sidewalk
or alley proposed to be occupied, the use to be made of same, and the length of
time of such intended occupation. Such permit shall be issued subject to the
provisions of this Chapter as to bonds, fees and all other requisites in
connection with such permit. (1965 Code)
6-3-3: TIME LIMIT:
The permission to occupy streets, parkways, sidewalks, or alleys for the
purposes of building, is intended only for imperative use in connection with
the actual erection, repair, alteration or removal of buildings, and shall
terminate with the completion of such operation and at as much earlier time as
shall be feasible in the opinion and discretion of the Building Commissioner,
at which time the person to whom the occupation permit has been issued shall
remove all materials and equipment and shall place the street, parkway,
sidewalk or alley in as neat and serviceable condition as prior to the
occupation thereof. (1965 Code)
6-3-4: SPACE LIMIT:
The occupation of a street for the storage of building materials shall never
extend more than one-third (1/3) of the way across the street pavement or
alley, nor to a greater extent than is authorized by the permit. (1965 Code)
6-3-5: SPACE LIMIT EXTENSION:
It shall not be lawful to occupy with building materials any street, parkway,
sidewalk or alley or any part thereof other than that immediately in front of
or adjoining the lot or land upon which the building is being erected;
provided, that if the written consent of the owners, tenants or occupants of
properties adjoining the site of any proposed building is first obtained and
filed with the Building Commissioner, the occupation of the street, parkway,
sidewalk or alley may be extended in front of the property so consenting, upon
the same terms and conditions as those fixed for the occupation of the street
in front of the building site. (1965 Code)
6-3-6: SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful to mix mortar, concrete or any other building material
upon the surface of any sidewalk in the Village. During the progress of
building operations, a sidewalk not less than five feet (5') in width, or an
equal width of a clear, hard roadway, made available and safe for a footway,
and with adequate guard railings, shall at all times be kept open, clean and
unobstructed for the purpose and uses of a passageway in front of such lot or
lots.
It is not intended hereby to prohibit the maintenance of a driveway for the
delivery of material across such sidewalk from the street to the building site;
but such driveway shall be under the supervision of the Building Commissioner.
(1965 Code)
6-3-7: BARRICADES; RED LANTERNS:
Any person to whom a building or street occupation permit is issued, shall
erect and maintain such substantial and suitable fences, railing or barricades
to guard all excavations, embankments, or obstructions along the street,
parkway, sidewalk or alley abutting upon or adjacent to such lot or tract as
the Building Commissioner deems necessary for the protection of the lives and
limbs of the public; and shall place and maintain proper and sufficient red
lights to protect the public using such street or sidewalk. Such lights shall
be placed at each end of every obstruction or excavation and at intervals of
not more than seventy five feet (75') along the same.
Any person who, without legal cause, removes, extinguishes, diminishes or
disturbs such light or removes or disturbs such barricades, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1965 Code)
6-3-8: BOND:
Before the Building Commissioner shall issue a street obstruction permit, the
applicant for such permit shall file with the Clerk, on a form to be furnished
by the Village and approved by the Attorney, a bond in the penal sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and conditioned to indemnify, save and keep
harmless the Village from any and all loss, cost, expense or liability of any
kind whatsoever, which the Village may suffer or be put to, or which may be
recovered from it by reason of the issuance of such permit, or by reason of any
act or thing done, or neglected to be done under or by virtue of the authority
given in such permit. An annual bond may be given to cover street obstruction
permits. (1965 Code)
6-3-9: FEES:
The fee to be paid the Building Commissioner for a street occupation permit
desired in connection with any work governed by the provisions of this Chapter
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 93-08, 5-25-93)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
6-4-1: Adoption Of City Of Chicago Electrical Code
6-4-2: Ground Fault Duplex Receptacle
6-4-3: Copper Wire Required
6-4-4: Two Hundred Ampere Service Required
6-4-5: Permit Fees
6-4-1: ADOPTION OF CITY OF CHICAGO ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus, or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected on, any
building or structure within the limits of this municipality shall be in
conformity with the provisions set forth in the city of Chicago electrical code
enacted by the city of Chicago, Illinois, and as amended to the date hereof,
and the whole thereof, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and
now are filed in the office of the clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the installation, alteration or repair of electrical materials.
(Ord. 91-03, 3-12-1991)
6-4-2: GROUND FAULT DUPLEX RECEPTACLE:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
6-4-1 of this chapter incorporating and adopting therein the provisions of the
city of Chicago electrical code, it shall be unlawful to install within the
village any electrical outlets other than a ground fault duplex receptacle in
any kitchen, bathroom, or laundry room in any residential building located in
the village. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
6-4-3: COPPER WIRE REQUIRED:
All electrical wiring within the village shall be of copper construction with
thickness of not less than "3/0" copper wire and "1/0" copper wire for ground,
and trade product number "4" copper wire shall be grounded to water pipe. In
addition, at least a two inch (2") diameter conduit pipe shall be used for
riser from the meter socket box.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 76-26, 12-14-1976)
6-4-4: TWO HUNDRED AMPERE SERVICE REQUIRED:
All two-family dwellings, as defined in title XI, chapters 1 through 5, of this
code, shall have not less than 200 ampere electrical current wiring.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 76-27, 12-14-1976)
6-4-5: PERMIT FEES:
The fees to be charged for electrical permits issued shall be as follows:
   (A)   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for updating or changing any electrical
service.
   (B)   Eight dollars ($8.00) for each 15 amp circuit breaker;
Ten dollars ($10.00) for each 20 amp circuit breaker;
Fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each 30, 40, 50 or 60 amp circuit breaker. (Ord.
01-13, 9-25-2001)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
6-5-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code Of The State Of Illinois
6-5-2: Meters; Flushing; Water Saving Plumbing Fixtures
6-5-3: Grease Traps
6-5-4: Water Cross Connection Controls
6-5-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of this
municipality that certain plumbing code known as the "Illinois plumbing code",
enacted by the state of Illinois, and as amended to the date hereof, and the
whole thereof of which not less than three (3) copies have been and now are
filed in the office of the clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the installation, alteration or repairing of plumbing. (Ord. 96-
36, 11-12-1996)
6-5-2: METERS; FLUSHING; WATER SAVING PLUMBING FIXTURES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
6-5-1 of this chapter, adopting the plumbing code of the state of Illinois:
(Ord. 77-25, 11-8-1977; amd. Ord. 96-36, 11-12-1996)
   (A)   All new water services shall be metered. New services include, but are
not limited to, water service in new construction of all types.
   (B)   Flushing of sanitary sewers with potable water shall be performed
through the use of a high velocity type sewer jet. (Ord. 77-25, 11-8-1977)
   (C)   1. Water Fixture Flow Rates: In all new construction and in all repair
and/or replacement of water using fixtures, only fixtures not exceeding the
following flow rates and/or water usage shall be installed. These ratings are
based on a pressure at the fixture of forty (40) to fifty (50) psi.
 
Water closets, tank type        3.5 gallons per flush
Water closets, flushometer type 3.0 gallons per flush
Urinals, tank type              3.0 gallons per flush
Urinals, flushometer type       3.0 gallons per flush
Showerheads                     3.0 gallons per minute
Lavatory, sink faucets          3.0 gallons per minute
 
      2.   Lavatories For Public Use: In addition to the requirements in
subsection (A) of this section, in all new construction and in all repair and/
or replacement of fixtures, faucets of lavatories located in restrooms intended
for public use shall be of metering or self-closing type.
      3.   Car Wash Installation: In all new construction and replacement of
fixtures, car wash installations shall be equipped with a recycling system on
the wash water unit and the rinse cycle unit.
      4.   Closed System Air Conditioning: In all new construction, and in the
replacement and in all new remodeling, closed system air conditioning shall be
installed. (Ord. 82-12, 6-8-1982)
6-5-3: GREASE TRAPS:
   (A)   Grease Trap Sludge: The term "grease trap sludge" shall mean the
solid, lighter than water fraction of wastewaters from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking or consumption of food which are discharged to
a pretreatment unit or device commonly referred to as a grease trap. The
principal components of grease trap sludge are fats, oils and greases.
   (B)   Grease Trap Maintenance: Each person, firm, corporation, association,
institution, commercial establishment or business entity which owns or operates
a grease trap shall cause collected or trapped fats, oils and grease to be
cleaned and removed from such device on a periodic basis, and delivered to a
facility authorized to use, treat or dispose of such material. Such cleanout
and removal shall be accomplished on a monthly basis unless the village, upon
receipt of proof from the owner or operator or on the basis of its own
inspection of the grease trap determines that a less or more frequent
maintenance schedule is required to achieve the purpose of this section and to
prevent the discharge of fats, oils and grease into the village sewer system.
   (C)   Substances Prohibited: No person, firm, corporation, association,
institution, commercial or business entity shall introduce, nor allow the
introduction of physical, chemical or biological agents into grease traps for
the purpose of resuspending or dissolving, emulsifying or rendering soluble any
fats, oils or grease removed from wastewater by such grease traps and
reintroducing them into the village sewer system.
   (D)   Sludge Prohibited In Sewer System: No person, firm, corporation,
association, institution, commercial establishment or business entity may cause
or allow the discharge, deposit or disposal of any grease trap sludge into a
treatment works or into any sewer owned by the village.
   (E)   Penalty: Any person, firm, corporation, association, institution,
commercial establishment or business entity who violates any of the provisions
of this section shall be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 96-11, 6-25-
1996)
6-5-4: WATER CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
6-5-1 through
6-5-3 of this chapter:
   (A)   Water Cross Connection Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall connect, maintain a connection or allow a connection
of a private water system to the public water system in the village of Posen
without the knowledge and approval of the superintendent of public works, and
all such connections shall be subject to inspection pursuant to the Illinois
plumbing code at the time that a connection is made and thereafter as provided
in this section.
      2.   No connection to the public water system shall be allowed in the
village unless:
         (a)   An approved water meter is installed;
         (b)   The connection is made at the point of the installed water
meter;
         (c)   The connection is made with an approved cross connection control
device installed at the water meter connection; and
         (d)   The connection is otherwise established and maintained in
compliance with the Illinois plumbing code.
      3.   No water from a private water system shall be allowed to enter a
public water system regardless of the connection used.
   (B)   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the following definitions:
   AWWA: The American Water Works Association.
   AWWA STANDARDS: The standards described in AWWA C506-78 (R83) and any
related provisions.
   APPROVED CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE: A device that is approved by the
Illinois plumbing code for connecting a private water system to a public water
system to prevent possible infiltration from a private water system to a public
water system.
   APPROVED INSPECTOR: A person certified and approved by the IEPA as a cross
connection control device inspector.
   APPROVED WATER METER: A water meter issued by the village of Posen for
purposes of connecting a private water system to a public water system.
   CODE: The Illinois plumbing code and the administrative regulations
authorized and promulgated pursuant to the Illinois plumbing code.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any connection of a private water system to a public water
system in the village of Posen.
   IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures and appurtenances that
are designed and intended to receive for private use water distributed from a
public water system and which is not part of the public water system.
   PROPERTY: Any separate parcel, zoning lot, building or unit of a building
that is served by a separate connection to a public water main.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A public supply of potable water for distribution to
the public including all mains, pipes and structures and appurtenances owned
and/or maintained by the village through which water is obtained and
distributed to the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and
cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and
appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use for
the purpose of furnishing potable water to the public.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The person designated and approved by the
Posen corporate authorities as the village of Posen superintendent of public
works or equivalent office and his/her designee.
   (C)   New Cross Connections; Installation And Testing:
      1.   New cross connections shall be made only as follows:
         (a)   Cross connection shall be made only at the water meter;
         (b)   Only approved cross connection control devices shall be used;
         (c)   The approved cross connection control devices shall be installed
only by a licensed plumber;
         (d)   The approved cross connection control devices shall be installed
only in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, the code and all other
applicable IEPA or other regulations;
         (e)   Inspected and tested by an approved inspector on the date of
installation and the test results shall be reported to the superintendent of
public works within ten (10) days from the date of testing; and
         (f)   All new cross connection devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation.
      2.   If the inspection reveals the cross connection control device is not
working properly, the device shall be serviced as follows:
         (a)   For fixed air gap separation devices, any corrections to
eliminate improperly bypassed air gaps and other service required for proper
functioning of the device shall be made within forty eight (48) hours after the
test indicating the need for service.
         (b)   For dual check assemblies, any service required for proper
functioning of the device shall be performed within fifteen (15) days after the
test indicating the need for service.
         (c)   For reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices, any
service required for proper functioning of the device shall be performed within
five (5) days after the test indicating the need for service.
   (D)   Existing Cross Connections; Initial Testing; Records Maintained:
      1.   Every owner and occupant of improved commercial and industrial
property or of residential property on which an underground sprinkler system is
installed in the village shall have an affirmative obligation to arrange an
initial inspection and testing of that property's cross connection by an
approved inspector in accordance with this section and the code and such
inspections and testing shall be completed prior to May 1, 2007, in order to
determine:
         (a)   Whether the cross connection was made only at the water meter;
         (b)   Whether an approved water meter was used;
         (c)   Whether an approved cross connection control device was used;
         (d)   Whether the approved cross connection control device, if any,
was installed in compliance with the code and all applicable IEPA and AWWA
standards and is working properly; and
         (e)   Whether any danger of infiltration exists from the private water
system to the public water system.
      2.   Every owner and occupant of improved commercial and industrial
property or of residential property on which an underground sprinkler system is
installed in the village shall have an affirmative duty to submit or cause to
be submitted an initial inspection report and testing results generated by an
approved inspector to the superintendent of public works' office by May 10,
2007.
      3.   Other properties:
         (a)   The superintendent of public works is hereby given the authority
to identify properties other than commercial and industrial properties and
residential properties on which an underground sprinkler system is installed,
to be inspected and tested for the purposes identified in subsection (D)1 of
this section.
         (b)   Within sixty (60) days from the mailing of a written notice, put
in the regular mail to the address of the property, from the superintendent of
public works that the property has been identified for cross connection
inspection and testing, the owner and/or occupant of such property shall have
the affirmative duty to schedule and complete an inspection of the property
with an approved inspector for the same purposes described in subsection (D)1
of this section.
         (c)   The owner and/or occupant whose property has been identified for
cross connection inspection and testing shall submit or cause to be submitted
an inspection report and testing results to the superintendent of public works'
office within ten (10) days after the date of initial inspection and testing or
within seventy (70) days from the notice mailing date, whichever is sooner.
      4.   The superintendent of public works shall have the additional
authority to investigate and test commercial, industrial and other properties
served by the public water system for the same purposes identified in
subsection (D)1 of this section and to survey the results of all investigations
and testing.
      5.   If any cross connection is discovered that is not in compliance with
this section, the property owner/occupant shall bring the property into
compliance with this section by removing any connection and/or cross connection
control device and/or water meter that is noncompliant and/or by installing an
approved water meter and/or an approved cross connection control device within
sixty (60) days of mailing of a written notice of the noncompliance, at his/her
own expense. All newly installed approved cross connection control devices
shall be installed, inspected and tested as provided in this subsection (D).
   (E)   Annual Testing; Affirmative Obligation To Schedule:
      1.   Owners and/or occupants of all commercial and industrial property,
residential property on which an underground sprinkler system is installed and
all other properties having a cross connection shall have an affirmative
obligation to retain an approved inspector to conduct an inspection and testing
of the cross connection annually prior to May 1 of each year, and the
inspection report and test results shall be reported to the office of the
superintendent of public works annually by May 10 of each year.
      2.   Inspection and testing of an approved cross connection control
device shall occur more frequently than annually if suggested by the
manufacturer of the device.
   (F)   Obligation To Supply Information On Demand: All owners and/or
occupants of any property in the village served by a connection to the public
water system of the village shall furnish to the superintendent of public works
any information requested regarding the cross connection, water meter, private
water system or water use on such property within ten (10) days of a written
request for such information.
   (G)   Threat Of Contamination; Disconnection From System:
      1.   Any illegal or improper cross connection device of installation
poses a threat of contamination to the public water system, and any violation
of this section, the code or the AWWA standards shall be considered a danger to
the public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   If the superintendent of public works determines that a property has
an illegal or improper cross connection device or installation in violation of
this section, the code or the AWWA standards, and the owner and/or occupant has
failed or refused to comply with the provisions of this section, the
superintendent of public works may give notice in writing to the owner and/or
occupant of the violation and that the water service to the property may be
discontinued on a date not less than five (5) days from the date of the notice
(hereinafter "5 day notice") if the owner and/or occupant does not take
immediate and appropriate steps to eliminate the violation and proceed
diligently to bring the property into compliance with this section.
      3.   The superintendent of public works is hereby authorized and directed
to discontinue water service to any property on which a known or presumed
violation of this section exists under the following circumstances:
         (a)   At any time following the issuance of a five (5) day notice if
the property owner and/or occupant fails to take immediate and appropriate
steps in compliance with this section to eliminate the violation and/or fails
to proceed diligently to bring the property into compliance with this section;
         (b)   At any time following the issuance of a five (5) day notice if,
in the superintendent of public works' determination, discontinuation of water
service is necessary to eliminate a threat of contamination to the public water
system that is likely, even if the property owner and/or occupant have taken
immediate and appropriate steps to eliminate the violation and is/are
proceeding diligently to bring the property into compliance with this section
and to eliminate the danger of contamination of the public water system;
         (c)   Upon verbal notice without delay if the superintendent of public
works or IEPA determines that contamination of the public water system is
imminent and discontinuation of water service is necessary to eliminate an
imminent hazard to the public health, safety and welfare; or
         (d)   Without notice to any party, if the superintendent of public
works or IEPA determines that contamination of the public water system is
immediate and discontinuation of water service is necessary to eliminate an
immediate hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
      4.   If water service is discontinued without written notice, the
superintendent of public works shall provide written notice as soon as
practicable following the discontinuation of water service identifying the
reason for discontinuation and of the steps that are necessary to restore the
water service.
      5.   Water service that is discontinued shall not be restored until all
illegal and improper cross connection devices or installations and any dangers
to the public health, safety and welfare have been eliminated, any violations
of this section have been remedied, and a reconnection fee of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) is paid to the village.
      6.   Neither the village nor any employee or agent of the village,
including the superintendent of public works, shall be liable to any person for
injury, damages or lost revenues that may result from discontinuation of the
public water supply to a property in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (H)   Presumption Of Illegal Or Improper Cross Connection: If any property
owner and/or occupant fails or refuses to schedule and allow an inspection, to
submit the inspection and testing results or to provide other information that
is requested as provided above, the property shall be presumed to have an
illegal or otherwise improper connection to the public water system as defined
by applicable IEPA and AWWA.
   (I)   Violations; Fines; Other Remedies:
      1.   In addition to the failure to comply with the terms of this section
as noted above, the following actions shall also be considered violations of
this section:
         (a)   The making of any statement, representation, or certification
that a person knows or should have known to be false in response to any request
for information or in any application, record, report, plan, or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this section;
         (b)   The interference or tampering in any way with any inspection or
test performed pursuant to this section; and
         (c)   The interference or tampering with any properly installed
approved cross connection control device.
      2.   Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this
section may be fined in an amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   A fine or fines may be imposed separately from and in addition to
the discontinuation of water service.
      5.   In addition to a fine or fines and/or discontinuation of water
service, the village may seek an injunction or other remedies available as
deemed necessary and appropriate by the superintendent of public works.
   (J)   Responsibility For Cost Of Contamination Cleanup: If any contamination
of the public water system occurs as a result of an illegal or otherwise
improper cross connection, cross connection device or installation as defined
by applicable IEPA and AWWA standards, the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of
property from which the contamination occurred shall be jointly and severally
liable for the costs to eliminate the contamination and to clean up and purify
the public water system and all other costs associated with and resulting from
such contamination, including, but not limited to, the initial and follow up
testing of the system as deemed necessary and appropriate by the superintendent
of public works and/or the IEPA.
   (K)   Inspection And Testing Reports; Records:
      1.   The superintendent of public works shall maintain original records
of the inspection and testing reports and make them available for inspection by
IEPA personnel in accordance with state statute 1 .
      2.   Each cross connection control device installed on property in the
village shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most recent
inspection and testing, the name of inspector, and type and date of repairs.
      3.   As a part of the inspection and testing reports, a maintenance log
for each cross connection control device installed in the village shall be
maintained by the owner and/or occupant of each property that contains a cross
connection, and the log shall, at a minimum, include:
         (a)   Date of each test;
         (b)   Name and approval number of persons performing the inspection or
test;
         (c)   Test results/inspection;
         (d)   Repairs or servicing required;
         (e)   Services performed and date completed.
      4.   All inspection and testing records shall be filed with the
superintendent of public works' office after an initial inspection and testing
and on an annual basis in order for the owner and/or occupant of each property
that contains a cross connection to remain compliant with this section.
      5.   The superintendent of public works shall maintain and make available
the inspection, testing and other records related to cross connections for
review for a period of at least five (5) years. (Ord. 2015-02, 2-24-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/4(e).
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Permit Required
6-6-2: Application
6-6-3: Bond; Fees
6-6-4: Conformance
6-6-5: Occupation of Street
6-6-6: Lights
6-6-7: Care of Pavements
6-6-8: Liability Insurance Required
6-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building shall be moved on or across any public street, walk, alley or other
public place within the Village by any person except upon a permit duly issued
by the Village.
6-6-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring; to move any building within the Village, shall first
obtain a permit after application thereof, presented to the Building
Commissioner, upon a form to be used for such purposes.
Before such permit shall be granted to any person, the application therefor
shall designate or describe the building proposed to be moved, where located,
the place to which it is proposed to be moved, the route to be taken and the
time probably required for such moving. In addition to the signing of such
application, the applicant shall furnish to the Building Commissioner, the
written consent of the owners, or their duly authorized agent, of the majority
of the frontage on both sides of the street where it is proposed to locate such
building, lying between the nearest intersecting streets. If upon consideration
of such application and such inspection as the Building Commissioner may deem
necessary, it shall appear to the Building Commissioner that the work proposed
to be done is in accordance with the provisions of this Code, the said Building
Commissioner, upon the payment to the Village of the fees and bond hereinafter
provided for, shall grant the permit sought for such purpose.
6-6-3: BOND; FEES:
Before the issuance of such permit, such applicant shall pay to the Village a
sum of money in payment for the occupancy of the street or streets through
which s aid building is proposed to be moved, and said sum to be determined by
estimating the number of days which will be required to move said building, on
the assumption that the building will be moved five hundred feet (500') per
day, at the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day. There shall also be
furnished in addition to the sum herein provided for, a bond in the sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with good and sufficient sureties to be approved
by the President, conditioned, among other things, that said party will pay any
and all damage that may occur to any public street, alley or public place over
which said building may be moved, and to reimburse the Village, and any public
utility company for the cost of removing and replacing all overhead wires,
cables and appurtenances and for the making of the necessary repairs thereto.
6-6-4: CONFORMANCE:
No permit to move any building within the Village shall be granted unless the
construction and proposed use of such building on the proposed new site shall
conform to the provisions of this Code.
6-6-5: OCCUPATION OF STREET:
No building which shall be authorized to be moved in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter shall be permitted to stand or remain in the
intersection of any streets, or any street and public alley, or upon any
railroad or railway crossing at any time during the course of its moving.
6-6-6: LIGHTS:
On each and every night while such building remains on the public streets or
alleys of the Village, from dusk to sunrise, the person to whom such permit
shall be issued shall place and cause to be maintained at the center and each
end of such building red lights which lights shall be plainly visible during
the period above mentioned.
6-6-7: CARE OF PAVEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to whom such permit shall be issued, to
drive stakes in any pavement, public alley or at any railroad or railway
crossing.
6-6-8: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Before any person to whom such permit may be issued, shall enter upon the
moving of any building so authorized to be moved by such permit, said person
shall obtain from some reliable insurance company, policies of liability
insurance indemnifying the Village for any damage or injury resulting to any of
the workmen or employees of such person engaged in the moving of such building,
and also indemnifying the Village for any damages or injury suffered by any
other person resulting from the moving of such building; such policies to be
approved by the Board of Trustees and to be upon such terms as directed by it.
CHAPTER 7
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Violation
6-7-2: Definition
6-7-3: Signs Permitted
6-7-4: Permits and Fees
6-7-5: Annual Inspection Fees
6-7-6: Certificate of Insurance
6-7-7: Construction Regulations
6-7-8: Signs Prohibited
6-7-9: Mobile Signs
6-7-10: Maximum Distance Above Ground
6-7-11: General Principles for Sign Design
6-7-12: Specific Guidelines by Design Element
6-7-13: Additional Guidelines for Special Signs and Situations
6-7-14: Illumination
6-7-15: Maintenance
6-7-1: VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful to erect, cause to erect or maintain any sign in the
Village in violation of this Code. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-2: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter, a sign shall be defined as any card, cloth,
paper, metal, painted glass, wooden, plastic, stone or other sign of any kind
or character whatsoever placed for advertising purpose on the ground, or on any
tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, structure or thing whatsoever.
The term "placed", as used in this definition, shall include erecting,
constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking,
carving, or other fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner
whatsoever. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-3: SIGNS PERMITTED:
Only the following signs shall be permitted:
   (A)   Districts Zoned "C" and "D" Posen Zoning Ordinance 1 : Hospitals,
homes for the aged or invalids, funeral parlors, medical and dental clinics,
lodge halls, private clubhouses, professional and business offices may display
a sign having an area not to exceed two (2) square feet, or a special sign as
may be approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   Business and Industrial Districts: Any sign may be constructed in such
districts subject to the regulations as hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Portable or Free Standing Signs; Restrictions: Only one nonelectric
single or double faced portable or free standing sign not to exceed twenty four
(24) square feet in area on either side will be allowed for each business
license issued.
   (D)   Advertising Type Bench Signs; Restrictions: Advertising type bench
signs shall be limited in number to six (6) within the corporate limits of the
Village. Each sign will not exceed seven feet (7') in length and three feet six
inches (3'6") in height. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title XI of this Code.
6-7-4: PERMITS AND FEES:
Permits from the Building Commissioner shall be required for all signs that
overhang public property and for billboards. The same procedure in obtaining a
permit shall be followed as is set forth for other permits under this Code.
Permit fees shall be paid at the time the permit is issued in the following
amounts:
   (A)   For signs having less than one hundred (100) square feet of display
area, counting both exposed sides:
 
1.Nonelectric signs                                              $25.00
2.Signs having any electric wiring on or in connection therewith 50.00
 
Provided, that there shall be no fee for any such electric signs used in
connection with a business licensed under some other provision of this Code.
   (B)   For signs having between one hundred (100) square feet and one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of display area counting both exposed
sides, twenty five cents ($0.25) per square foot of such area, and for signs
having greater than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of display
area counting both sides, three hundred dollars ($300.00) per side.
   (C)   For canopies, twenty five dollars ($25.00), provided that where a sign
is attached to a canopy and extends not more than two feet (2') above it, no
extra fee for such sign shall be required. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-1994)
6-7-5: ANNUAL INSPECTION FEES:
All signs for which a permit is required shall pay an annual inspection fee to
the Village in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). Said fee shall be paid at
the time of license renewal. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-1994)
6-7-6: CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:
Before a permit shall be issued for any sign hereunder, the applicant shall
submit to the Village a certificate of insurance showing the Village as an
additional insured with bodily injury insurance of at least one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) each person, and three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) each occurrence and property damage coverage of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) each occupant. The policies of insurance shall be in
companies approved by the Village Board. In the event said insurance expires or
is cancelled the sign shall be immediately removed and, in the event it is not
so removed, the Superintendent of Public Works is hereby authorized to remove
said sign and the cost of said removal shall be paid by the person who received
the permit. In the event that any injury or damage shall occur by reason of the
construction or maintenance of the sign, the owner of said sign shall hold
harmless the Village and any officials or agents thereof from any cost, damage
or expense of any type. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-1994)
6-7-7: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   No sign for which a permit is required shall overhang public property
in excess of six feet (6').
   (B)   All signs shall have a minimum clearance from the ground of nine feet
(9').
   (C)   The application for the permit for the sign shall indicate the manner
and type of construction which shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Board so as to insure the safety of the public. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-1994)
6-7-8: SIGNS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place any advertising sign or displays within
a residential district classified as single- family residential "A" and "B" as
defined in the Village Code, Title XI, Chapter 3.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place any advertising sign or display, as
defined in Section
6-7-2 of this Chapter, on any vacant or unimproved property within the
corporate limits of the Village without approval of the Village Board.
   (C)   Any person or persons who shall cause such a sign or display to be
placed in such areas shall be subject to a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per day for each day that said sign or display shall be
allowed in said residential district or on said vacant property. (Ord. 94-12,
3-23-1994; amd. Ord. 96-06, 2-27-1996)
6-7-9: MOBILE SIGNS:
Mobile sign shall mean any electrical or nonelectrical sign designed for use
and display out-of-doors which is mounted on a trailer with a locking device,
or which is otherwise capable of being easily transported or moved from place
to place, or which is a display board similar or comparable to a portable
attraction sign mounted on a light-carrying carriage capable of being towed.
Specific regulations for the use of said mobile signs shall include the
following:
   (A)   No mobile sign shall be permitted to stand at any address within the
Village for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days in any year, nor
more than a total of sixty (60) days in any year. No mobile sign permit shall
be issued for consecutive thirty (30) day periods without at least thirty (30)
days intervening.
   (B)   No mobile sign shall be permitted to stand upon any public right of
way. All mobile signs shall be placed on private property only.
   (C)   All mobile signs shall meet all Village requirements concerning
traffic hazards and line of sight hazards.
   (D)   No mobile sign shall be permitted with lights that flash, blink or
vary in intensity.
   (E)   All mobile signs shall comply with all applicable code provisions of
the Village, including, but not limited to the Electrical Code provisions where
the mobile sign is electrical.
   (F)   Each mobile sign shall have clearly and permanently stamped, painted
or affixed thereon in a prominent and visible location the name and address of
the mobile signs owner.
   (G)   When a mobile sign is electrical, the following regulations, in
addition to all other applicable regulations, shall apply thereto:
      1.   The total length of cord between the source of power and the mobile
sign unit shall be no more than twelve feet (12') in length.
      2.   The source of power shall be a weatherproof receptacle, grounded
type.
      3.   There shall not be any other connector of any kind between the
mobile sign and the source of power.
      4.   In no case shall the cord be in such a position that it will be
walked over by pedestrian traffic or be driven over by any form of wheeled
vehicle.
      5.   No mobile sign shall be operated with any power source unless the
mobile sign unit has a U.L. label affixed thereto.
      6.   Temporary electrical permits shall be required for all electrical
mobile signs.
   (H)   All mobile signs shall be maintained in good working order and in a
structurally safe condition, and the immediate area surrounding said mobile
sign shall be kept free from litter and debris.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a mobile sign within the
Village without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Village Clerk.
The application for said permit shall be on a form provided by the Village
Clerk and contain such information as required by the Village Clerk.
   (J)   All mobile sign permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days and shall set forth thereon the date of issuance and
expiration.
   (K)   No mobile sign shall be allowed which is larger in size than four feet
by eight feet (4' x 8').
   (L)   All mobile signs shall be firmly and solidly constructed and must be
firmly and securely set in place.
   (M)   The mobile sign permit fees are as follows: Each sign permit shall be
thirty dollars ($30.00) and if a temporary electrical permit is required, that
fee is an additional thirty dollars ($30.00).
   (N)   Penalty Provisions:
      1.   Any person who places a mobile sign upon property within the Village
without first having obtained and kept in full effect a permit as required
above, shall be required to procure a permit for such sign, and shall pay a fee
therefor equal to twice the fee which is otherwise charged hereunder.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be fined
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as having been
committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation.
      3.   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
Section, in addition to the penalties provided herein, shall have his permit
revoked, and no new permit shall be allowed to that person or on that location
for one year.
      4.   When the person responsible for violating the provisions of this
Section cannot reasonably be determined, then the person holding permit to
place the mobile sign at such location shall be the person who is in violation
of this Section. In the event that at the time of the violation there exists no
valid permit for the particular mobile sign in violation, then the owner of the
sign or the owner of the property or business where the sign is located shall
be the person who is in violation of this Section. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-10: MAXIMUM DISTANCE ABOVE GROUND:
The highest part of any sign extending over, above, or within fifty feet (50')
of any sidewalk or public way shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') above the
level of the sidewalk or public way over which it extends or adjoins. (Ord. 94-
12, 3-23-94)
6-7-11: GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR SIGN DESIGN:
   (A)   Legibility of Signs: Signs shall be adequately legible under the
circumstances in which they are primarily seen. The legibility of signs is
related to:
      1.   The speed at which they are viewed;
      2.   The context and surroundings in which they are seen;
      3.   The design, colors, and contrast of the sign copy and sign face.
The design of the sign including copy, lettering size and style, and colors
shall logically relate to the predominant speed of traffic which will see it.
Signs shall legibly convey their messages without being distracting or unsafe
to motorists reading them.
   (B)   Relationship of Signs to Their Surroundings: Signs shall not detract
from the general appearance or architectural character of their surroundings
including streets, buildings, and other signs in the area. Signs shall not be
designed to compete with one another but shall contribute to the composite
legibility and attractiveness of streets within the Village.
   (C)   Relationship of Signs to the Buildings and Sites They Identify: Signs
shall be an integral architectural element of the buildings and sites that they
identify and their design shall be consistent with, and not detract from, the
overall architectural concept of their site.
   (D)   Quality and Craftsmanship of the Signs: Signs shall be carefully
crafted, durable, and consistent with the quality and permanence of the
buildings and sites that they identify.
   (E)   Maintenance of Signs: All signs shall be regularly maintained and
repaired or replaced in response to the aging and weathering of their
materials. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-12: SPECIFIC GUIDELINES BY DESIGN ELEMENT:
   (A)   Scale and Proportion:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: The scale of freestanding signs shall be
compatible with the building or buildings they identify and the signs shall not
be of such a size that they visually overpower the buildings on the site.
      2.   Building Signs (signs attached to or part of a building or structure
on the site other than freestanding signs): Building signs shall be harmonious
in scale and proportion with the building facade they are mounted to and with
the architectural elements of the building such as windows, cornices, sign
friezes and bays. Signs that are part of building elements such as walls,
windows, canopies, awnings, and mansard roofs shall not visually overpower
those elements nor detract from the composition of the building facade.
   (B)   Shape and Silhouette:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: The silhouette and outlined shape of
freestanding signs shall be simple and compatible with the building to which it
relates. Signs of excessively complicated outline or composed of many different
connected shapes are unacceptable. Freestanding signs should have an attractive
combination of pole skirts, landscaping, berms and/or similar treatments to
provide a visual base for the sign and integrate the sign into the overall
architecture, landscaping and topography on the site. Brick, wood, stone walls
or properly treated metal will be acceptable materials to be used for pole
skirts and must be compatible with the material used in the sign. Freestanding
signs may not obstruct or limit the sight distance of motorists within any sign
triangle as defined in the Code.
      2.   Building Signs: The silhouettes and outlined shapes of building
signs shall be compatible with the building facade they are mounted on. Shapes
that disrupt the architectural order and composition of a building facade are
unacceptable.
   (C)   Sign Placement and Height:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall not be placed close
against a building so that they obscure important architectural features such
as entrances, display windows or decorative cornices when viewed from the
street.
      2.   Building Signs: Sign placement on a building shall respect and not
disrupt the architectural edges and lines of the building facade. No part of
any sign should overlap or cover the architectural edges and lines of the
building such as cornices, eaves, window and door frames, columns, decorative
elements and corners.
      3.   Mansard Signs: Mansard signs shall consist of raised individual
letters or logographs mounted directly to the mansard surface, or shall be
mounted in a manner that is consistent with the architecture of the building
facade and roof with no visible brackets, braces, angle irons, or secondary
supports. Mansard signs that project out from the surface of the mansard shall
be enclosed on all sides perpendicular to the sign face with a treatment to
match the color, texture and appearance of the mansard material.
   (D)   Sign Copy:
      1.   Legibility: Sign copy shall be brief enough to be legible under the
circumstances and speed at which it will be seen and should be composed in
proportion to the area of the sign face.
      2.   Signs: Other than changeable copy and multi-tenant retail and
service center signs shall have no more than ten (10) items of information that
are greater than or equal to two inches (2") in height on the sign face. For
the purposes of these guidelines, all individual words, symbols, figures,
numbers or illustrations excluding punctuation marks shall be considered items
of information.
      3.   Simplicity: The use of simple pictures, symbols or logographs is
encouraged as a replacement for words that describe the name or nature of a
business or use.
   (E)   Lettering:
      1.   Lettering styles on signs shall be legible under the circumstances
and speed at which they will be seen.
      2.   Simple and easily readable lettering styles shall primarily be used
and specialized, decorative lettering styles shall be adequately legible and
compatible with the architectural concept of the property.
      3.   The number of different lettering styles on a sign or on a series of
signs within a complex of buildings shall be minimized and shall relate to the
overall architectural concept for the property.
      4.   Lettering and copy shall not be crowded onto the surface of a sign
or building surface and shall be composed to leave ample space around the copy
to preserve legibility.
   (F)   Materials and Construction:
      1.   The materials and textures of signs shall have good architectural
character and shall not be inconsistent with nor detract from the overall
design concept of the site and building of which it is a part.
      2.   Natural materials such as wood, stone, or brick are encouraged for
signs.
      3.   Signs shall not be designed for permanence and their materials and
construction shall not detract from the permanence of the buildings they
identify.
   (G)   Color:
      1.   The visual appearance of signs on a street shall be harmonious,
orderly, and reinforce the architectural character of the street. Colors or
combinations of colors that are harsh and disrupt the visual harmony and order
of the street are unacceptable.
      2.   Bold, bright, or harsh colors shall be used sparingly, as accents on
a sign, rather than as predominant colors. Strong contrasts of tone or color
shall be avoided except when necessary for legibility.
      3.   Visible frames, supports, or structural elements of signs that are
not part of the sign face shall be of subdued coloring, or, if made of brick,
stone, or wood, shall be of natural colors compatible with the natural finish
of the material.
   (H)   Illumination:
      1.   Illuminated Design: Signs that are illuminated shall be designed to
be equally attractive whether illuminated or not.
      2.   Intensity of Illumination: The intensity of illumination for the
sign shall not be excessively bright and shall be even over the face of the
sign with no bright spots.
      3.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be illuminated
internally or by concealed fixtures so that no reflectors, extension arms, or
fixtures are visible from the street.
      4.   Building Signs: Signs that are part of a building shall have
internal lighting or a concealed means of illumination. The only exception
shall be decorative fixtures that are consistent with the style of the building
and do not disrupt the order and composition of the building facades.
      5.   Illumination of Letters and Graphics: To maintain legibility, the
illumination of letters and graphics shall be substantially brighter than the
illumination of the background on a sign face.
   (I)   Landscaping:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be landscaped at their
base in a method harmonious with the landscape concept for the whole site.
Landscaping shall form an attractive, dense cluster at the base of the sign
that is equally attractive in winter and summer. A minimum of two (2) square
feet of landscaping will be required for every one square foot of sign face.
The landscape area shall be curbed at the perimeter when the sign is
incorporated into a hard- surfaced parking area. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-13: ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES FOR SPECIAL SIGNS AND SITUATIONS:
   (A)   Signs with Company Logos:
      1.   Company logos or identification logos of a prototypical design on
signs shall conform to all the provisions in these guidelines and shall stay
within the spirit and intent of these guidelines regarding the visual order and
restraint of the street environment.
   (B)   Signs in Shopping Centers and Other Unified Business Centers:
      1.   Approval of Architectural Unity of Signs: There shall be an
architectural harmony and unity of signs within a unified business center on a
property. Sign type, color scheme, lettering, size, placement of the sign,
number of lines of copy, and illumination shall be coordinated and shall be
compatible with the architecture of the center. A sign proposal containing all
of these factors in scaled elevation drawings shall be submitted for approval
to the Planning Department.
      2.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs identifying shopping centers
and other unified business centers shall identify the name of the center or
complex and no more than six (6) separate tenants per sign face within the
complex or center.
      3.   Building Signs: Building signs shall be in harmony with the overall
architectural concept for the site and be compatible with each other and with
the building facades. Separate business signs shall be located uniformly on a
sign frieze, canopy, or other appropriate architectural concept for the center
as a whole and shall be adequately separated from one another.
      4.   All unified shopping and business centers shall submit a written
sign criteria that will be used to carry out the intent of the sign proposal
required in subsection(B)1 of this Section. Upon approval by the Director, this
criteria shall be used in addition to these guidelines to evaluate the design
of all new signs in the business center.
   (C)   Changeable Copy Signs:
      1.   Changeable copy may be incorporated into a single tenant sign face
when the changeable component of the sign face occupies less than one-half (1/
2) of the total area of that sign face.
      2.   Changeable copy on a sign face shall be composed in proportion to
the entire sign face with a border or similar treatment around the changeable
copy to integrate it into the sign face.
      3.   Lettering of changeable copy shall be of a single, simple, easily
legible lettering style and shall be of uniform color and size throughout the
changeable copy portion of the sign. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
6-7-14: ILLUMINATION:
Any sign permitted under these regulations may be illuminated, provided such
illumination with the following:
   (A)   Hours of Operation: With the exception of electronic message centers,
all illuminated signs within one hundred feet (100') of any residential
property (lot) line shall be turned off between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless the establishment is engaged
in the operation of its business with employees on the premises during such
period.
   (B)   Installation or Application: Illumination shall be installed such
that:
      1.   The light source is contained within the sign and is visible only
through a translucent surface or recessed into the sign structure; or
      2.   The light source is external to the sign and is directed to and
concentrated on the sign; or
      3.   The light source is supplied by neon tubing.
   (C)   Glare: Illumination shall be prevented from striking or causing a
glare on the street or nearby properties.
   (D)   Protection of Light Source: Floodlights, gooseneck reflectors or other
external source of illumination shall be contained within a protective casing.
   (E)   Motion: Illumination shall be constant in intensity and color and
shall not consist of flashing, animated, chasing or scintillating lights.
Electronic message centers, as defined in this subsection, shall not be
considered "flashing" signs for the purposes of these regulations. (Ord. 94-12,
3-23-94)
6-7-15: MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   The owner of a sign and the owner of the premises on which such sign
is located shall be jointly and severally liable to maintain such sign,
including any illumination sources in neat and orderly condition and good
working order at all times, and to prevent the development of any rust,
corrosion, rotting or other deterioration in the physical appearance or safety
of such sign.
   (B)   The owner of any sign regulated by this Chapter shall be required to
have properly painted all parts and supports of the said sign when necessary,
unless the same are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust or
deterioration. (Ord. 94-12, 3-23-94)
CHAPTER 8
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Nuisance Declared
6-8-2: Report Required
6-8-3: Notice to Remove or Repair Dangerous Structures
6-8-4: Lien, Owners Liability
6-8-5: Injunction
6-8-6: With-Holding of Permit
6-8-7: Posting of Notice
6-8-8: Immediate Action to Prevent Accident
6-8-9: Condemnation
6-8-10: License Revocation
6-8-11: Repairing Sanitary Conditions
6-8-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any building or part thereof, or any structure of like nature, in a condition
dangerous to the occupants, or those passing, or to any adjacent building, by
reason of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective heating
apparatus, defective machinery, defective flues, confined or cramped stairways,
insufficient exits, narrow or dark passageways, or which is unsafe or dangerous
for the purpose for which it is used or intended to be used, or is in danger of
being set on fire from any defect in its construction or is especially
dangerous in case of fire by reason of its dilapidated condition or defective
construction, or from other causes, or which may be prejudicial to the public
health or the health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, shall be deemed
and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
6-8-2: REPORT REQUIRED:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of either the Building Commissioner,
Fire Chief, Police Chief, Health Officer, or when complaint shall be made to
them or any of them in writing by two (2) reputable citizens, that any building
walls or structure within the Village is in such dangerous condition as
described in the preceding Section, said Building Commissioner, Fire Chief or
Health Officer, as the case maybe, shall forthwith report the same to the Board
of Trustees.
6-8-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE OR REPAIR DANGEROUS STRUCTURES:
If it shall appear to the Board of Trustees, after due investigation of such
report aforesaid, that such building, walls or structure is in such dangerous
condition as aforesaid, the Village Attorney shall notify in writing the owner
or owners thereof, by postage paid mailing, directing said owner or owners to
put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it. Where, upon diligent
search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such building
shall not be ascertainable, such notice shall be mailed to the person or
persons, in whose name such real estate was last assessed. If after thirty (30)
days subsequent to the giving of such notice, said owner or owners fail to put
such building in a safe condition or to demolish it, the Commissioner of
Buildings or Village Trustees may notify the Village Attorney to initiate
proceedings in the Circuit Court of Cook County for an order authorizing the
Village to demolish, repair or enclose or to cause the demolition, repair or
enclosure of said building.
6-8-4: LIEN, OWNERS LIABILITY:
The cost of such demolition, repair or enclosure shall be recoverable from the
owner or owners of such real estate, and shall be alien thereon as provided by
law, provided that within sixty (60) days after said cost and expense is
incurred, the village, or the person performing the service by authority of the
Village, shall file notice of lien as provided by law.
Such lien when so recorded, shall be superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes.
Said lien shall be enforced as further provided by law in accordance with the
Statutes of the State of Illinois.
6-8-5: INJUNCTION:
If the Board of Trustees determines, upon due investigation, that any building
or structure therein fails to conform to the minimum standards of health and
safety as set forth in the applicable ordinances of the Village, and the owner
or owners of such building or structure fails, after due notice, to cause such
property so to conform, the Village may make application to any court of
competent jurisdiction for an injunction requiring compliance with such
ordinances or for such other order as the court may deem necessary or
appropriate to secure such compliance.
6-8-6: WITH-HOLDING OF PERMIT:
The Village may refuse to issue a permit for the reconstruction, alteration or
repair of any building or portion thereof on the property involved until the
expenditure incurred by the Village on account of the work and material
supplied has been repaid.
6-8-7: POSTING OF NOTICE:
Every building which shall appear to the Building Commissioner, Health Officer
or Fire Chief to be especially dangerous in case of fire by reason of bad
conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay or other
causes, shall be held to be an unsafe building and the Building Commissioner or
Health Officer, as the case may be, in addition to proceedings as provided in
Section
6-8-3 of this Chapter, shall also affix a notice of the dangerous character of
the building in a conspicuous place on the exterior wall thereof, and any
person removing, defacing or disturbing such notice so affixed shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
6-8-8: IMMEDIATE ACTION TO PREVENT ACCIDENT:
In case the Building Inspector or Health Officer finds any building or part of
a building in such condition as to endanger life, or liable to cause serious
accident, and that such danger may be averted by the immediate application of
precautionary measures, said officers, or either of them, shall have and
exercise the power (without the preliminary direction of the Board of
Trustees), to take such precautionary measures as in his or their opinion may
be necessary to render any building or part thereof safe; provided, the owner,
lessee, occupant or agent of said building refuses or neglects to take such
precautionary measures after being notified so to do by said officers or any of
them. The decision and order of said officers or any of them, as the case may
be, shall be absolute and final. (4-27-65; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-94)
6-8-9: CONDEMNATION:
The Building Inspector, Health Officer, or Fire Chief may order that no person
shall be permitted to enter, occupy or use a dangerous building or any portion
thereof until the same shall have been made safe; and may post such order in a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building. No person shall enter,
occupy or use, except for the purpose of repairing and making safe, any
building or portion thereof after the posting of such notice until such
building or portion thereof shall have been made safe. (4-27-65; amd. Ord. 94-
26, 10-12-94)
6-8-10: LICENSE REVOCATION:
If the building or portion thereof found dangerous shall be devoted to any
purpose requiring a license, the President may suspend the license pending the
period of making repairs; and he may revoke the license in case of failure on
the part of the owner or party having an interest in such unsafe building or
portion thereof to make safe without delay and at their expense. (4-27-65)
6-8-11: REPAIRING SANITARY CONDITIONS:
It shall not be lawful to occupy for human habitation any building which is
declared by the Health Officer to be unfit for such habitation by reason of
defective sanitary conditions, until such conditions have been remedied and the
premises approved by the Health Officer as fit for occupancy. (4-27-65)
CHAPTER 9
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
6-9-1: License
6-9-2: Application
6-9-3: Investigation
6-9-4: Approval
6-9-5: License Fees; Term
6-9-6: Inspection; Revocation of License
6-9-7: Insurance Requirements
6-9-8: Bond Requirements
6-9-9: Subcontractors
6-9-10: General Contractor
6-9-1: LICENSE:
No person shall conduct, manage, operate or carry on the business of either:
   General Contractor
   Concrete or cement contractor
   Mason (brick or stone) contractor
   Carpenter contractor
   Electric contractor
   Lathing contractor
   Plaster contractor
   Excavating contractor
   Heating contractor
   Roofing contractor
   Drain layer
   Sewer contractor
   Plumbing contractor
or engage in the construction, erection, finishing, repairing, wrecking or
alteration of buildings or other structures within the Village, without
obtaining a license as hereinafter provided. (1965 Code)
6-9-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a license to carry on the business of contractor as
described in the first Section of this Chapter, and engaged in the
construction, erection, finishing, repair, wrecking or alteration of any
building or dwelling, shall make application to the Building Inspector, stating
in such application the name and residence of the applicant, if an individual,
and the officials, if a corporation and the place of business and the kind of
contracting business proposed to be carried on by said applicant, and the
experience which said applicant has. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-94)
6-9-3: INVESTIGATION:
The Building Inspector shall cause an investigation to be made of the
statements in such application as to whether the applicant has the necessary
experience, qualifications and equipment to properly engage in the proposed
business. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-94)
6-9-4: APPROVAL:
The Building Inspector shall transmit the application along with his
recommendation for or against the issuance of such license to the Board of
Trustees. Upon approval of the application by the President and Board of
Trustees, and the fees hereinafter fixed they shall cause a license to be
issued to the applicant. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-94)
6-9-5: LICENSE FEES; TERM:
For the purpose of this Chapter, each of the contracting businesses described
in the first section of this Chapter shall be and is considered as a separate
business requiring a separate license, for the conduct thereof. The annual
license fee shall be as designated in Section
7-46-4 of this Code.
No license shall be issued for less than the full annual license fee nor for a
term less than a year. (Ord. 86-29, 11-11-86)
6-9-6: INSPECTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any person securing a license under this Chapter shall perform his work in
accordance with the rules and regulations set forth in this Code and shall be
subject to such inspection of the performance of the work as shall be deemed
necessary by the Building Inspector, and he, or any of his employees, shall
have the right to enter at all times, during the business hours for the purpose
of inspecting any work being performed.
If, at any time after the granting of a license under this Chapter, the
Building Inspector shall certify to the President that any licensee hereunder
has failed to comply with any building requirements under the provisions of
this Code, such license may be revoked by the President. (1965 Code; amd. Ord.
94-26, 10-12-94)
6-9-7: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Upon application to the Village by any person to carry on the business of
contractor as described in Section
6-9-1 of this Chapter, such application shall be accompanied by a copy of the
applicants proof of general liability insurance coverage. (Ord. 94-27, 10-26-
94)
6-9-8: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Any contractor who is licensed under the provisions of this Chapter to do
business, must file and keep in force during the license period a surety bond
in the amount that is designated in Section
7-46-4 of this Code, conditioned to indemnify the Village and hold it harmless
from any loss, damage, claim or liability arising out of or resulting from the
conduct or operation of such business or the doings or failure to do any act in
connection therewith. (Ord. 94-27, 10-26-94)
6-9-9: SUBCONTRACTORS:
Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be construed as engaged in
the business of a building contractor for which a license is required by this
Chapter and such subcontractor shall obtain, and pay for said license, as well
as provide the Village with the necessary proofs of general liability
insurance, and surety bond as provided for in Sections
6-9-7 and
6-9-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 94-27, 10-26-94)
6-9-10: GENERAL CONTRACTOR:
Any person having a general contractor's license shall not be required to
secure an additional license. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 10
FENCES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Height Of Fences
6-10-3: Construction
6-10-4: Permit Required
6-10-5: Variations
6-10-6: Fencing Of Basketball Courts
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMBUSTIBLE FENCE: Any fence not constructed entirely of noncombustible
materials.
FENCE: A structure forming a barrier at grade between lots, between a lot and a
street or any alley, or between portions of a lot or lots, such structures
being independent of any other.
Fences shall be classified according to the general form of their construction
as screen fences or solid fences.
SCREEN FENCE: A fence so constructed that at least fifty percent (50%) of the
superficial area thereof consists of regularly distributed apertures.
SOLID FENCE: A fence so constructed that less than fifty percent (50%) of the
superficial area thereof consists of regularly distributed apertures. (1965
Code)
6-10-2: HEIGHT OF FENCES:
Fences shall be constructed so as not to exceed the following heights:
   (A)   On the side or front of a lot which is adjacent to a street and on the
other side lot lines on the street side of the building line, the height of the
fence shall not exceed three and one-half feet (31/2') except where the fence
is on or behind the building setback line, in that area the fence may be up to
six feet (6'). These provisions shall not apply to fences built on property
zoned E, F and G if the property is used for commercial or industrial purposes.
   (B)   On all other lot lines or portions of lot lines the height of the
fence shall not exceed six feet (6'). (Ord. 87-13, 7-14-1987)
   (C)   The height of a noncombustible screen fence shall not exceed six feet
(6') except as follows:
      1.   A noncombustible screen fence enclosing a place of open air assembly
or a yard of an institutional, business, industrial or storage occupancy may
have a height not exceeding ten feet (10').
   (D)   The height of a noncombustible fence shall not exceed six feet (6')
except as follows:
      1.   A noncombustible fence enclosing a place of open air assembly or a
yard of an institutional, business, industrial or storage occupancy may have a
height not exceeding ten feet (10'). Any fence in industrial area must present
rendering and have specific Board Approval on a case by case location. No solid
walls of any type are to be installed as fencing, nor any razor fencing, barb
wire or metal containment units are to be used as a fence. (Ord. 2018-26, 10-
23-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 2-25-2020)
6-10-3: CONSTRUCTION:
Fences shall be designed and constructed to resist a horizontal wind pressure
of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot in addition to all other
forces to which they may be subjected. (1965 Code)
6-10-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No fence shall be constructed without a building permit from the Village, and
all fences shall be of uniform material. (1965 Code)
6-10-5: VARIATIONS:
The Village's Corporate Authorities may grant a property owner a variation from
strict compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter upon the Corporate
Authorities' determination that such strict compliance would create a practical
difficulty or particular hardship for the property owner; provided that no
variation shall be granted when the property owner seeking the variation
created or contributed to the creation of that practical difficulty or
particular hardship. (Ord. 2008-10, 6-10-2008)
6-10-6: FENCING OF BASKETBALL COURTS:
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the periphery of
any basketball court which meets all of the following criteria must be enclosed
by a fence of not less than six feet (6') and not more than seven feet (7') in
height:
      1.   The basketball court must be located in the side or rear yard of a
residential lot;
      2.   The basketball court must consist of an asphalt or concrete surface
which covers not less than sixty seven percent (67%) of the area of the side or
rear yard;
      3.   The basketball court is not located in an area that is used as a
driveway access to a garage.
   (B)   Fences required pursuant to this section shall also have one or more
fence gates of even height with the fence and all such gates shall be: 1)
provided with a lock of the key or combination variety; and 2) equipped with
self-closing, self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate. Fences
required pursuant to this section shall otherwise comply with applicable legal
requirements. (Ord. 2008-12, 6-10-2008)
CHAPTER 11
BUILDING REGULATIONS FOR USE BY HANDICAPPED AND AGED PERSONS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Provisions for the Handicapped and Aged
6-11-2: Entrances
6-11-3: Doors and Doorways Intended for Use by the Public
6-11-4: Stairs That Must be Used by Those With Disabilities or the Aged
6-11-5: Floors; Ramps
6-11-6: Toilet Rooms
6-11-7: Water Fountains
6-11-8: Public Telephones
6-11-9: Elevator
6-11-10: Controls
6-11-11: Identification
6-11-12: Penalty
6-11-1: PROVISIONS FOR THE HANDICAPPED AND AGED:
In order to make buildings accessible to, and functional for, the physically
handicapped, the requirements of this Section, as well as the other applicable
Sections and Chapters of the Posen Village Code, shall apply to buildings
hereafter erected for or changed to any of the following uses or occupancy:
Amusement facilities or devices providing shelter, armories, auditoriums,
churches, City administrative buildings, clubhouses, courthouses, dance halls,
department stores, drill halls, or gymnasiums which normally admit spectators,
financial institutions, funeral home public areas, libraries, lodge halls,
manufacturing buildings, markets, office buildings, oil company service
stations, public convenience stations or toilets, recreation buildings,
restaurants, retail and service stores, school, seminaries, service clubs,
skating rinks, sports arenas, transportation passenger terminals, theaters, art
centers and museums.
6-11-2: ENTRANCES:
   (A)   At least one primary entrance to each building shall be usable by
individuals in wheelchairs. These primary entrance doors if in series shall
have a space between them of not less than eighty four inches (84") measured
from their closed positions and shall open in the same direction so that swings
do not conflict.
   (B)   At least one entrance usable by individuals in wheelchairs shall be on
a level that would make the elevators accessible.
   (C)   All suspended lights, signs, fixtures, or similar objects that
protrude into regular corridors or traffic ways shall be at a height of at
least seven feet (7') measured from the floor.
6-11-3: DOORS AND DOORWAYS INTENDED FOR USE BY THE PUBLIC:
   (A)   Doors intended for use by the public shall have a clear opening of no
less than thirty two inches (32") when open and shall be operable by the use of
one hand.
   (B)   The floor on the inside and outside of each doorway shall be at a
grade not greater than two percent (2%) for a distance of five feet (5') and
shall extend one foot (1') beyond each side of the door.
   (C)   Thresholds shall be flush with the floor.
   (D)   Low-hanging door closers that remain within the opening of a doorway
when the door is open, or that protrude hazardously into regular corridors or
traffic ways when the door is closed shall not be used.
   (E)   Two-leaf doors are considered to be two separate doors; each leaf
shall be at least thirty six inches (36") wide.
6-11-4: STAIRS THAT MUST BE USED BY THOSE WITH DISABILITIES OR THE AGED:
   (A)   Steps in stairs that might require use by those with disabilities or
by the aged shall not have abrupt (square) nosing.
   (B)   Stairs shall have handrails thirty two inches (32") high as measured
from the tread at the face of the riser.
   (C)   Stairs shall have at least one handrail which shall extend at least
eighteen inches (18") beyond the top step and beyond the bottom step where
there is a continuing wall.
   (D)   Steps should wherever possible, and in conformation with existing step
formulas, have risers that do not exceed seven inches (7").
   (E)   Where open risers are used, they shall have a partial riser of not
less than two inches (2") in height where the top of the tread and the bottom
of the riser join, to prevent canes, crutch tips, and feet from slipping
through. Open riser stairways not located between walls shall have side skirt
boards of not less than two inches (2") in height.
6-11-5: FLOORS; RAMPS:
   (A)   Floors shall have a surface that is tested and approved to be slip
resistant by a nationally recognized testing laboratory.
   (B)   Floors on a given story of an individual building shall be of a common
level throughout or be connected by a ramp, constructed in accordance with
subsection 5 of this Section.
      1.   Each ramp shall not have a slope greater than a one foot (1') rise
in twelve feet (12'), or eight and thirty three-hundredths percent (8.33%), or
four degrees (4°) fifty minutes (50').
      2.   Each ramp shall have a surface that is tested and approved to be
slip resistant by a nationally recognized testing laboratory.
      3.   Each ramp shall have a level platform at the top which is at least
five feet by five feet (5' x 5'), if a door swings out onto the platform or
toward the ramp. This platform shall extend at least one foot (1') beyond each
side of the doorway.
      4.   Each ramp shall have a level platform at least three feet (3') deep
and five feet (5') wide, if the door does not swing onto the platform or toward
the ramps. This platform shall extend at least one foot (1') beyond each side
of the doorway.
      5.   Each ramp shall have at least six feet (6') of straight clearance at
the bottom.
      6.   Ramps shall have level platforms at thirty foot (30') intervals for
purposes of rest and safety and shall have level platforms wherever they turn.
These platforms shall be at least three feet (3') deep.
6-11-6: TOILET ROOMS:
   (A)   An appropriate number of toilet rooms, in accordance with the nature
and use of a specific building or facility, shall be made accessible to, and
usable by, the physically handicapped.
   (B)   Toilet rooms shall have at least one toilet stall that:
      1.   Is three feet (3') wide.
      2.   Is at least five feet (5') deep.
      3.   The door (where doors are used) shall be thirty two inches (32")
wide and swing out.
      4.   Handrails shall be placed on each side, thirty three inches (33")
high and parallel to the floor, one and one-half inches (11/2") in outside
diameter, with one and one-half inches (11/2") of clearance between rail and
wall, and fastened securely at ends and center.
      5.   There shall be a water closet with the seat twenty six inches (26")
from the floor. A wall-mounted water closet shall have a narrow under-structure
that recedes sharply.
A floor-mounted water closet shall not have a front that is wide and
perpendicular to the floor at the front of the seat. The bowl shall be shallow
at the front of the seat and turn backward more than downward.
   (C)   Toilet rooms shall have one or more lavatories with narrow aprons,
which, when mounted at standard height are usable by individuals in
wheelchairs; or shall have lavatories mounted higher, when particular designs
demand, so that they are usable by individuals in wheelchairs.
   (D)   One or more mirrors and shelves shall be provided above lavatories at
a height as low as possible and no higher than forty inches (40") above the
floor, measured from the top of the shelf and the bottom of the mirror.
   (E)   Toilet rooms for men shall have one or more wall-mounted urinals with
the opening of the basin nineteen inches (19") from the floor, or shall have
floor-mounted urinals that are on a level with the main floor of the toilet
room.
   (F)   Toilet rooms shall have one or more towel racks, towel dispensers and
disposal units mounted no higher than forty inches (40") from the floor.
6-11-7: WATER FOUNTAINS:
   (A)   One or more water fountains or other water-dispensing means shall be
accessible to, and usable by, the physically disabled.
   (B)   Water fountains or coolers shall be hand operated or hand and foot
operated, with spouts and controls located at the front.
6-11-8: PUBLIC TELEPHONES:
   (A)   One or more public telephones should be made accessible to, and usable
by, the physically disabled.
   (B)   One or more public telephones should be equipped for those with
hearing disabilities and so identified with instructions for use.
6-11-9: ELEVATOR:
In a multiple story building, elevators shall be accessible, to and usable by,
the physically disabled on the level that they use to enter the building, and
at all levels normally used by the general public.
6-11-10: CONTROLS:
Switches and controls for light, heat, ventilation, windows, draperies,
elevators, fire alarms, and all similar controls of frequent or essential use,
shall be placed within the reach of individuals in wheelchairs.
6-11-11: IDENTIFICATION:
   (A)   Raised letters or numbers shall be used to identify doors leading to
public facilities required by this Section.
   (B)   Doors that are not intended for normal use, and that might prove
dangerous if a blind person were to exit or enter by them shall be made quickly
identifiable to the touch by knurling the door handle or knob.
6-11-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any applicable provisions of this
Ordinance shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1973; 3-27-
73)
CHAPTER 12
SMOKE DETECTORS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Requirement, Multiple Family Dwellings
6-12-2: Number
6-12-3: Additional Smoke Detector, Interior Stairwell
6-12-4: Type Approved
6-12-5: Sprinkler System Exemption
6-12-6: Penalty
6-12-1: REQUIREMENT, MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS:
All multiple family residential buildings, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance
of the Village, Title XI of the Posen Village Code, shall be equipped with
approved smoke detectors in the manner prescribed in Sections
6-12-2,
6-12-3 and
6-12-4 of the Posen Village Code. (Ord. 79-6, 1979)
6-12-2: NUMBER:
Not less than one approved smoke detector shall be installed in each multiple
family dwelling unit contained within all multiple family residential
buildings; and the said smoke detector shall be installed on the ceiling and at
least six inches (6") from any wall, or on a wall located from six inches (6")
to twelve inches (12") from the ceiling, and within fifteen feet (15') of all
rooms used for sleeping purposes. In the event one smoke detector is not within
fifteen feet (15') of all rooms used for sleeping purposes, additional
detectors shall be installed to conform with said requirement.
6-12-3: ADDITIONAL SMOKE DETECTOR; INTERIOR STAIRWELLS:
In addition to the smoke detector, or detectors, required within each multiple
family dwelling unit, all multiple family residential buildings shall contain
not less than one approved smoke detector at the uppermost ceiling of all
interior stairwells. All approved smoke detectors herein required shall be
installed on the ceiling, at least six inches (6") from the wall, or on a wall
located from six inches (6") to twelve inches (12") from the ceiling.
6-12-4: TYPE APPROVED:
All approved smoke detectors required to be installed shall be either the
ionization chamber or the photoelectric type and shall comply with all the
specifications of the Underwriters Laboratories Inc. Standard UL 217 (Standard
for Safety-Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors 1976). In addition, all
detectors shall bear the label of a nationally recognized standards testing
laboratory that indicates that the smoke detectors have been tested and listed
under the requirements of Underwriters Laboratories Standard 217 (1976). (Ord.
78-8, 5-9-78)
6-12-5: SPRINKLER SYSTEM EXEMPTION:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply, and smoke detectors shall not
be required, in buildings which contain an approved sprinkler system
throughout.
6-12-6: PENALTY:
Every owner, manager or agent of a multiple family residential building shall
be required to install the smoke detectors prescribed by this Chapter; and any
person, firm, or corporation, violating the provisions and/or regulations of
this Chapter, and Ordinance, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 79-6, 1979)
CHAPTER 13
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Applicability
6-13-2: Definition
6-13-3: Permit To Construct
6-13-4: Location
6-13-5: Recirculation Pools
6-13-6: Walk Areas
6-13-7: Fences
6-13-8: Steps Or Ladders
6-13-9: Water Supply
6-13-10: Inlets
6-13-11: Recirculation System And Appurtenances
6-13-12: Construction
6-13-13: Electrical Requirements
6-13-14: Portable Swimming Pools
6-13-15: Operation And Maintenance
6-13-16: Inspection
6-13-17: Permit Fees
6-13-18: Penalty
6-13-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all temporary and permanent private swimming pools,
whether they be new or existing pools. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "private swimming pool" shall mean any
permanent or portable receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water,
constructed, installed, and maintained in, or above, the ground: (Ord. 81-7, 7-
28-1981)
   (A)   Having a depth or wall height, at any point, of more than two feet
(2'), or having a surface area exceeding one hundred fifty (150) square feet;
(Ord. 2005-12, 8-23-2005)
   (B)   Having a location outside of a permanent residential building;
   (C)   Being owned and maintained by a person primarily for the use of said
person's family and guests; and
   (D)   Not operated for the purpose of profit or in connection with any
business operated for profit. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-3: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT:
   (A)   No person or organization shall proceed to construct a private
swimming pool or make major alterations at an existing private pool without
first having obtained a permit therefor, issued and signed by the village
clerk, or his authorized representative, upon approval of the application.
   (B)   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation, enlargement
or alteration of any private swimming pool and appurtenances shall first be
presented to the building commissioner who shall present same to the chairman
of the buildings and plats committee of the village board of trustees. The
building and plats committee will then approve or reject plans or drawings
within fifteen (15) days.
   (C)   Application for a permit shall be in writing in the form prescribed by
the building commissioner. Such application shall contain such information as
shall be required by said building commissioner for a proper understanding of
the proposed work. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-4: LOCATION:
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted only on property
occupied by a one- or two-family residential dwelling.
   (B)   No portion of a private residential pool shall be located at a
distance less than three feet (3') from any side or rear property line, or
building line.
   (C)   Pumps, filters and pools of water disinfection equipment installations
shall be located at a distance not less than six feet (6') from any side
property line. Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the
side yard between dwellings.
   (D)   The provisions of this Section hereof shall not apply to swimming
pools of a permanent construction which have been constructed prior to the
effective date of this Chapter. (Ord. 86-19, 8-12-86)
6-13-5: RECIRCULATION POOLS:
All private swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type in which
circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps, the water
drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected before being returned to
the pool.
6-13-6: WALK AREAS:
   (A)   Unobstructed walk areas not less than twenty four inches (24") wide
shall be provided to extend entirely around the pool, with an area of not less
than three feet by five feet (3' x 5') at gate entrance and an area of not less
than three feet by five feet (3' x 5') at all diving board locations. The walk
area shall be constructed of impervious material, the surfaces shall be smooth
and easily cleaned, and of nonslip construction. The slope of the walks shall
have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch to the foot (1/4"/1'), designed so as
to prevent back drainage from entering the pool.
   (B)   A foot rinse unit shall be available for cleaning feet before entrance
on to pool walks.
6-13-7: FENCES:
All private residential swimming pools, in-ground or above- ground, shall be
completely enclosed by a fence as follows:
   (A)   In the case of an in-ground pool, by a fence not less than six feet
(6') in height, which shall be installed and maintained along the entire
periphery of the pool walks as defined in Section
6-13-6 of the Village Code.
   (B)   In the case of an above-ground pool, by a fence of a height of not
less than two feet (2') above the maximum pool water level or not less than six
feet (6') above the grade level of the ground upon which the pool is placed,
whichever height is greater.
Fence gates shall also be of the height prescribed in subsections (A) and (B)
herein; and all gates shall be (i) provided with a lock of the key or
combination variety; (ii) equipped with self- closing, self-latching devices
placed at the top of the gate; and (iii) made inaccessible to small children.
All fences and gates shall be constructed of a minimum number "9" gauge woven
wire mesh corrosion resistant material or material approved by the building
committee which meets the objective of visibility and safety; in addition, said
fence and gates shall comply with the regulations of the Village Building Code.
All fence posts shall be decay resistant or corrosion resistant and shall be
set in concrete bases.
6-13-8: STEPS OR LADDERS:
Two (2) or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall be
provided for all private residential swimming pools. At least one such means of
egress shall be located on a side of the pool at both deep end and shallow end
of the pool. Treads of steps and ladders shall be constructed of a nonslip
material and at least two and one-half inches (21/2") wide for their full
length. Steps and ladders shall have a handrail on both sides.
6-13-9: WATER SUPPLY:
The water supply when in the pool shall meet the following clarity criterion:
filters shall be capable of maintaining the clarity of the water to permit the
ready identification, through an eight foot (8') depth of water, of a disc two
inches (2") in diameter, which is divided into four (4) quadrants in alternate
colors of red and white. Any person under the terms of the chapter who has a
house connection to the existing water works system may use same for filling
and replacement of water in said swimming pool. Should the user not have a
hook-up to said water works system, in accordance with the terms and provisions
of ordinances relating to same, then he or she shall be required to make
application with the Village for filling of said pool through the Department of
Public Works of said Village.
6-13-10: INLETS:
   (A)   Private residential swimming pool water recirculation system inlet
shall be located so as to produce, so far as possible, uniform circulation of
water throughout the pool without the existence of dead spots and to carry pool
bottom deposit to the outlets with discharge at a minimum of ten inches (10")
below the pool overflow level. A main outlet shall be placed at the deepest
point in the pool and fitted with a safe grating. No direct connection shall be
made to the sewer. A minimum of one recirculation system inlet shall be
provided for every six hundred fifteen (615) square feet of surface area of the
pool.
   (B)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding make up
water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water supply
line and the pool system. If the make-up water is added directly to the pool,
the outlet shall be at least six inches (6") above the upper rim of the pool.
The point of discharge shall be at least six inches (6") above the rim of the
tank. If a hose connection from sill cock or other plumbing fixtures is to be
used for supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be
installed between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose
connection. The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height no less than
seven feet six inches (7'6") above the floor, platform or ground upon which a
person would stand when operating the sill cock or control valve.
6-13-11: RECIRCULATION SYSTEM AND APPURTENANCES:
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools recirculation system shall consist
of pumping equipment hair and lint catcher, filters, together with the
necessary pipe connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and pipe
connections necessary for backwashing filters and facilities and equipment for
disinfecting the pool water.
   (B)   The recirculation system pump shall have sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for an eighteen (18) hour turnover of
the pool against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
   (C)   The pump used for backwashing type filters shall have sufficient
capacity to provide a filter backwash rate of at least ten (10) gallons per
minute per square foot of filter area.
   (D)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous matter
from reaching the pump filters. Hair and lint catchers shall be designed that
they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and shall be located
as to be easily accessible for cleaning.
   (E)   Recirculating systems shall contain rapid pressure filters. Sufficient
filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the pool in
eighteen (18) hours at a rate of not more than five (5) gallons per square foot
of filter area per minute. The filter backwashing facilities shall be
sufficient to backwash at a rate of ten (10) gallons per minute per square foot
of filter area. All backwater and effluents shall be discharged to the sewer
through an indirect connection. Pressure filters shall be equipped with readily
accessible air relief valves loss of head or pressure gauges on the inlet and
outlet pipes to determine the frequency of cleaning, and an access head or hold
large enough to permit inspection, maintenance and repair work. Sight glasses
that can be easily removed for cleaning shall be provided in the effluent line
from the filter units. Operating instructions shall be posted on every filter
system and all valves shall be properly designated with metal tags indicating
purpose.
   (F)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool water.
Any disinfection method using materials other than chlorine compounds shall
have sufficient capacity to maintain a free chlorine residual of six tenths
(.6) to one parts per million. The disinfectant shall be introduced onto the
recirculation system ahead of the filters. P.H. shall be a minimum of seven and
two tenths (7.2) or a maximum of seven and six tenths (7.6).
   (G)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water.
   (H)   A test kit with permanent color standards shall be provided at all
private pools and used at frequent intervals to check on the adequacy of the
chlorine treatment.
6-13-12: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Wall slopes to a depth of five feet (5') from the top, the wall slope
shall not be more than one and one-half feet (11/2') horizontal in five feet
(5') vertical.
   (B)   Floor slopes - the slopes of the floor in the shallow end shall not
exceed one foot (1') vertical to seven feet (7') horizontal. The transition
point between shallow and deep water shall not be less than four and one-half
feet (41/2') and not more than five feet (5') deep.
6-13-13: ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No overhead current carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, or be located within ten feet (10') of such pools.
   (B)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to private
residential swimming pools, which might become electrically alive as a result
of contact with broken overhead conductors, or from any other cause shall be
effectively ground.
6-13-14: PORTABLE SWIMMING POOLS:
All portable pools shall also comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   Cover: All portable pools will have a full cover which shall be placed
upon the pool at all times when pool is not in use. This cover shall support
eighty five (85) pounds when attached to pool.
   (B)   Fence: The property owner shall construct, or cause to be constructed,
a fence, as provided by section
6-13-7, and the subsections thereof, of this chapter.
   (C)   Ladders: No permanent ladder shall be used in connection with portable
pools and all ladders which are used shall be removed and safely stored when
said pool is not in use. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-15: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   All private residential swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory
operating condition during periods the pool is in use.
   (B)   No private residential swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in the village, if such use, keeping, maintaining or operating
shall be the occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous to life or
detrimental to health. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-16: INSPECTION:
The health commissioner may periodically inspect all private residential
swimming pools to determine whether or not the provisions of this chapter
regarding health, sanitation and safety as applicable thereto are being
complied with. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
6-13-17: PERMIT FEES:
The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of a swimming pool shall
be twenty dollars ($20.00). A five dollar ($5.00) building inspection fee and a
five dollar ($5.00) electrical inspection fee shall be required in addition to
the permit fee. (Ord. 01-14, 9-25-2001)
6-13-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 81-7, 7-28-1981)
CHAPTER 14
SATELLITE ANTENNAS
SECTION:
6-14-1: Construction and Installation of Satellite Dish Antennas
6-14-1: CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain a commercial or private television
receive only antenna (TVRO) within the Village except in compliance with the
following:
      1.   The intended use shall be authorized under applicable Federal law.
      2.   The smallest practical size dish shall be used, and in any event
such dish shall be of a size no greater than ten feet (10') in its maximum
dimension. The maximum height of any such dish shall be governed by safety and
aesthetic consideration as determined by the Building Commissioner.
      3.   No more than one TVRO shall be installed on a single zoning lot.
      4.   The construction and installation of TVROs shall conform to all
other applicable ordinances of the Village.
      5.   The proposed location is such that the TVRO shall be located in the
rear or side yards no fewer than ten feet (10') from the nearest adjacent lot
line. The location shall not be in the required setback areas (as defined in
the Zoning Ordinance of the Village 1 ) unless encroachment in the required
side or rear setback areas provides an acceptable location and if otherwise in
conformity with all other provisions of this Section. A variation may be
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village; provided, that the
procedures and standards for granting such variation shall be those procedures
and standards set forth under the terms of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village
for variations from the provisions of such Ordinance.
      6.   Screening shall be provided by any one or more of the following: the
dwelling, garage, storage building, or other accessory building on the lot
where such TVRO is located, or landscaping and plantings which provide year-
round screening.
      7.   All installations shall exhibit architectural quality, coloration to
blend with surroundings and structural integrity. No advertising, logos or
symbols shall be permitted on any TVRO, nor shall a TVRO be illuminated by a
direct or indirect light. No TVRO shall be located on the roof of any
residential structure unless approved by the Village Board. No TVRO shall be
installed on a portable or moving structure, such as a trailer. Electrical
connections must meet all local codes in respect to ground fault interrupter,
unless low-voltage, minimum twelve inches (12") of earth over all cables and an
eight foot (8') ground rod bonded to the TVRO with seven and one-half feet (71/
2') imbedded in the ground.
      8.   Permanent foundations shall be adequate so as to support wind forces
of eighty five (85) miles per hour. Each TVRO shall be permanently ground
mounted in a residential application but may be located on the roof in a
commercial, multiple residential, school, church, manufacturing or Municipal
application if approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   Permit Regulations:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to install a TVRO in the
Village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
      2.   Procedure: An application for a permit for installation of a TVRO
may be obtained from the Village Clerk's office. The application shall then be
submitted to the Village Board and to the Building Commissioner. All permits
issued under this Section shall be issued upon authority of the Village Board
and the signature of the Building Commissioner.
      3.   Application; Fee: Each application for permit to install a TVRO
shall include all items generally required for the action sought (i.e., permit,
variation) plus the following:
         (a)   Plot plan showing the proposed location of the TVRO on the
property.
         (b)   Plans and specifications for the installation including
elevations, dish size and configuration, mount, foundation and any
motorization.
         (c)   Landscape plan for screening of the TVRO from neighboring and
street view.
         (d)   Location of principal structures on adjacent lots.
         (e)   A part-owner, occupant or renter must submit written permission
from all owners of the lot, premises or parcel of land within the Village on
which such construction, installation and maintenance is proposed. (Ord. 92-05,
3-24-92)
         (f)   A permit fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) plus building and
electrical inspection fees of fifty dollars ($50.00) each shall be made payable
after approval of such installation and prior to such installation. (Ord. 93-
09, 5-25-93)
   (C)   Maintenance: All TVROs and support structures shall be maintained in
good repair and structurally sound to ensure that the TVRO and support
structure will not be damaged due to winds or structural failure. All surfaces
shall be maintained in good condition, free of rust or corrosion.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the terms and provisions of this
Section shall be punishable by fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day or part thereof on which a
violation occurs or continues or is permitted to occur or continue. (Ord. 92-
05, 3-24-92)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title XI of this Code.
CHAPTER 15
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Definitions
6-15-2: Requirement For Permit, Exceptions
6-15-3: Prohibitions
6-15-4: Alarm User Permits
6-15-5: False Alarms
6-15-6: Service By Mail
6-15-7: Automatic Devices
6-15-8: Operating Defects To Be Remedied
6-15-9: Authority To Inspect Installations
6-15-10: Testing Equipment
6-15-11: Liability
6-15-12: Permit And Use Fees
6-15-13: Penalty
6-15-14: Knox Box Required
6-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable for the purposes of this chapter:
ALARM CONDITIONS: Alarms activated by unlawful violation of user's property or
other violations that the systems were designed to protect against, acts of
God, other violent conditions or by outside agencies or external forces not
under the control of the owner, lessee or his employee or agent.
ALARM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER: Any person, firm or corporation that sells, leases
or installs automatic or signaling devices which transmit alarms upon receipt
of a stimulus from a detection apparatus or a manually operated system.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices such as a solid state unit,
arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to
which police or fire departments are expected to respond.
ALARM USER: Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained within
the Village of Posen except for alarm systems on motor vehicles. Also included
are those systems which employ an audible signal emitting sound or a flashing
light or beacon designed to alert or signal persons outside the premises.
CENTRAL STATION: A facility whose prime purpose is to monitor incoming alarm
signals twenty four (24) hours a day and relay the signal information to the
appropriate authorities.
DIRECT LINE: A telephone line leading directly into the communications center
of the Police Department that is for use only to report signals on a person-to-
person basis.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system caused by improper operation,
negligence of the owner or lessee or his employee or agent or equipment
malfunction.
LOCAL ALARM: A signaling system which, when activated, causes an audible and/or
visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises within which the
system is installed.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or society, but
such term does not include the Village of Posen.
POLICE CHIEF: The Chief of the Police Department of the Village of Posen or his
authorized representative.
PUBLIC TRUNK LINE: A telephone line leading into the communications center of
the Police Department that is for the purpose of handling emergency and
administration calls on a person-to-person basis.
SIGNALING DEVICE: An electronically operated instrument which automatically
sends visual and/or audible signals to be registered by indicators at a monitor
panel at the receiving terminal or central station.
VILLAGE: Village of Posen.
6-15-2: REQUIREMENT FOR PERMIT, EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, manage, conduct or carry
on an alarm business within the Village without complying with the provisions
of this Chapter and without first obtaining a valid alarm business permit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to work as an alarm agent within
the Village without complying with the provisions of this Chapter and without
obtaining a valid alarm business permit.
   (C)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not be applicable to audible
alarms affixed to motor vehicles or to the Village of Posen, its officers,
agents and employees.
6-15-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to activate any police alarm system
for the purpose of summoning police, except in the event of what is reasonably
believed to be a holdup, burglary or a fire situation. Whenever a police alarm
system has been designed and commonly understood to alert others of the
commission of a particular crime, it shall be unlawful for anyone to activate
such police alarm system for the purpose of summoning police except in the
event of what is reasonably believed to be such particular crime.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install or use a police alarm system which,
upon activation, emits a sound similar to sirens in use on emergency vehicles
or for civil defense purposes.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any audible alarm to sound for a period of
time to exceed fifteen (15) minutes. Each audible alarm must be controlled by
an automatic shutoff device.
6-15-4: ALARM USER PERMITS:
   (A)   Permit: Within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this
Chapter, every alarm user shall obtain an alarm user permit for each alarm
system he operates within the Village from the Police Chief. This paragraph
does not require that licensed alarm businesses obtain a permit under this
Section when it leases or provides services to alarm system users. If a
licensed alarm business does, however, use an alarm system to protect its own
premises, it shall obtain a permit for such system as required in this Section.
   (B)   Alarm User Permit Application: The alarm user applying for the permit
required in paragraph (A) of this Section shall state on a permit application
form to be prepared by the Police Department and approved by the Village
Attorney his name, the address of the residence or business or businesses in or
upon which the alarm system has been or will be installed, his telephone
number, the type of alarm system (local, direct connect, central station,
etc.), the alarm business or businesses selling, installing, monitoring,
inspecting, responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system, and the name and
telephone number of at least one other person (in the case of a corporate alarm
user applicant, at least 2 persons) who can be reached at any time, day or
night, and who is authorized to respond to an alarm signal and who can open the
premises in which the system is installed.
Any alarm user who installs a system ninety (90) days or more after the
effective date of this Chapter must submit with the application a certificate
of a licensed alarm business stating that in the opinion of each business the
alarm system complies with this Chapter. Such certificate shall satisfy the
requirements of paragraph (C)1 of this Section for the year in which the alarm
permit is first obtained.
   (C)   Every alarm user licensed under this Section shall be required to have
its alarm system inspected at least once a year by a licensed alarm business,
and post a certificate of such inspection on the premises where the alarm
system is maintained with a copy of same forwarded to the Police Chief. The
certificate shall state that in the opinion of the alarm business:
      1.   The alarm system complies with the applicable provisions of this
Chapter if the system was installed ninety (90) days or more after the
effective date of this Chapter; or
      2.   The alarm system is safe and reliable if it was installed prior to
ninety (90) days after the effective date of this Chapter.
   (D)   The information contained in an alarm user permit application required
by this Section and other information received by the Police Chief through
correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall be securely
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Police Chief or certain
officers or City employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling and processing alarm user permits, in the course of official duties.
If the Police Chief or any employee of the City is found to have knowingly or
wilfully revealed the information contained in an alarm user permit application
or in correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any other person
for any purpose not related to this Chapter or official law enforcement matters
and without the ex press written consent of the City employee, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in the Village Code of
Ordinances.
   (E)   Any alarm user who operates an alarm system without first obtaining a
permit as required by this Section or who, after having a permit revoked or
suspend ed and after exhausting his rights to hearing and appeal, fails to
disconnect his alarm system, shall be in violation of this Chapter.
6-15-5: FALSE ALARMS:
   (A)   More than two (2) false alarms in a calendar month from any alarm
system for which an alarm user permit has been obtained may constitute grounds
for revocation of such permit, subject to the provisions of this Section.
   (B)   After the Police Department has recorded two (2) "false alarms" within
a calendar month from any alarm user permit holder, it shall notify the permit
holder and the alarm business providing service or inspection to the permit
holder in writing by first class mail of such fact and require that the permit
holder sub mit a report to the Police Chief within fifteen (15) days after
receipts of such notice describing efforts to discover and eliminate the cause
or causes of the false alarms. If, however, the alarm user, by reason of
absence from the Village or any other reasonable basis, requests an extension
of time to file the report, the Police Chief shall extend the fifteen (15) day
period. If the permit holder fails to submit such a report within fifteen (15)
days or within any such ex tended period, the Police Chief may revoke the
user's permit and under such circumstances the user shall not be entitled to a
hearing or appeal under this Section.
   (C)   If the alarm user submits a report as required by paragraph (B) of
this Section but the Police Chief determines that the report is unsatisfactory
or that the alarm user has failed to show by the report that he has taken or
will take reasonable steps to eliminate or reduce false alarms, then the Police
Chief may issue writ ten notice by first class mail of his intent to revoke or
suspend the alarm user's permit.
   (D)   If, after submission of a report required by paragraph (B) of this
Section which is satisfactory to the Police Chief, the alarm system of the
permit holder incurs one or more false alarms during the same calendar month,
the Police Chief may issue written notice by first class mail of his intention
to revoke or suspend the alarm user's permit.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a notice of intent to revoke or suspend an alarm
user's permit pursuant to paragraphs (C) and (D) of this Section, the alarm
permit holder may, within ten (10) days of such receipt, submit a written
request by first class mail, return receipt requested, for a hearing before the
Police Chief, setting forth the reasons that his permit should not be revoked.
   (F)   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be served on
the holder of the permit by the Police Chief by first class mail at least ten
(10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (G)   At the hearing before the Police Chief, the holder of the permit, or
his authorized representative, shall have the right to confront and examine
witnesses, and to present evidence on his own behalf. After the hearing, the
Police Chief may either issue an order of revocation, withdraw the notice of
revocation or suspend the permit until such time that he is satisfied that the
cause or causes of the false alarms have been eliminated.
   (H)   Any person whose permit has been revoked or suspended pursuant to this
Section shall have the right, within ten (10) days after receiving notice of
revocation from the Police Chief, to file a written appeal by first class mail
or hand delivery with the Village Board, and no alarm user shall be required to
discontinue use of his alarm system prior to the expiration of such ten (10)
day period. Such appeal shall set forth the specific ground or grounds on which
it is based. The Village Board shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty
(30) days after its receipt by the Village and shall cause the appellant to be
given at least ten (10) days' written notice of such hearing. At the hearing,
the appellant or his designated representative shall have the right to present
written or oral argument, or both, in support of his appeal, and the Village
Board shall issue its decision within ten (10) days after the hearing.
   (I)   If a permit user files an appeal pursuant to paragraph (H) of this
Section, he shall not be required to discontinue the alarm system until a final
decision is made on his appeal.
   (J)   An alarm system user whose permit has been revoked is not precluded
under this Section from applying for a new permit. The Police Chief, however,
is not required to issue a new permit unless he is satisfied that the alarm
user's system has been properly serviced and its deficiencies corrected. The
Police Chief may impose reasonable restrictions and conditions upon issuing a
new permit to an alarm user with respect to the particular system for which the
permit was revoked.
   (K)   The alarm user shall be assessed a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for
each false alarm in excess of two (2) per calendar month. An alarm user or his
authorized agent shall have thirty (30) minutes in which to arrive at an alarm
location to assist police authorities in shutting off any alarm. If the
response time is greater than thirty (30) minutes, the alarm user will be
assessed a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee unless he releases the responding
agency from the scene at the time he is advised of the alarm by the responding
agency. All fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk for deposit.
6-15-6: SERVICE BY MAIL:
When a person or the Village Police Chief, Mayor or Village Board has the right
or is required to act or take some proceeding within a prescribed period
pursuant to this Chapter, and service is made by mail, two (2) days shall be
added to the prescribed period. Whenever a person (the Police Chief or any City
official or employee) is required to make delivery by first class mail,
delivery, in lieu thereof, may be made by hand by any person eighteen (18)
years of age or older.
6-15-7: AUTOMATIC DEVICES:
   (A)   Nonpermitted Devices: No person shall cause or permit to be used an
alarm system utilizing automatic protection devices that automatically select a
public trunk line of the Police or Fire Departments or Dispatch Center of the
Village and then reproduce any prerecorded message to report a robbery,
burglary, fire or other emergency.
With the exception of local outside or inside ringing alarms, only signaling
devices shall be permitted to be installed in the Village for the purposes of
reporting any robbery, burglary, fire or other emergency to the Police or Fire
Departments or Dispatch Center of the Village.
6-15-8: OPERATING DEFECTS TO BE REMEDIED:
When messages evidencing failure to comply with the operational requirements
set forth in this Chapter are received by the Police Department, and the Chief
of Police concludes that the automatic protection device sending such messages
should be discontinued in order to relieve the Police Department of the burden
of responding to false alarms, he is authorized to demand that the owner or
lessee of such device, or his representative at the place where it is
installed, disconnect such device until it is made to comply with said
operations requirements. If disconnection of the defective automatic protection
device is not accomplished promptly by such demand and the Chief of Police
deter mines that the malfunctioning device is repeatedly sending false alarms
in succession without an intermittent valid alarm, he may then take whatever
steps are necessary to disconnect the defective automatic protection device.
6-15-9: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT INSTALLATIONS:
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter, the Chief of the
Fire Department and the Chief of the Police Department shall each have the
authority, at reasonable times and upon oral notice, to enter upon any premises
within the Village to inspect the installation and operation of an automatic
protection device or signaling device, the purpose of which is to report an
emergency to the Police or Fire Departments either directly or through an
intermediary.
6-15-10: TESTING EQUIPMENT:
No person shall conduct any test or demonstration of an automatic protection
device or a signaling device designed to make direct connection with
headquarters of the Police Department without first obtaining permission from
the Chief of Police. Where the equipment to be tested or demonstrated is keyed
to an intermediary, such permission is not required unless the alarm or signal
is to be relayed to the Police or Fire Departments.
6-15-11: LIABILITY:
In the event the Village finds it necessary to disconnect a defective alarm
system, the Village shall incur no liability by such action. (Ord. 86-10, 6-24-
86)
6-15-12: PERMIT AND USE FEES:
 
Alarm installer/alarm supplier/business license, annual fee $50.00
Alarm system installation permit, one-time fee              25.00
Additional inspection fees, per inspection                  25.00
 
(Ord. 93-10, 5-25-93)
6-15-13: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with or
who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. This chapter may be
enforced by the use of a citation in the form of a uniform P-ticket. In such
cases, the penalty assessed shall be ten dollars ($10.00) if paid before the
due date and twenty five dollars ($25.00) if not paid before the due date.
(Ord. 86-10, 6-24-1986)
6-15-14: KNOX BOX REQUIRED:
   (A)   Effective January 1, 1995, all occupancies within the village of Posen
with an existing burglar or fire alarm system must have an approved Knox Box
installed outside the structure containing keys to enter the structure and any
locked interior doors. The Knox Box system must meet the requirements of
section 10.209 of the 1992 uniform fire code which details the installation of
the Knox Box system. All future burglar or fire alarm system installations
shall conform to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the terms and provisions of this section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day or part thereof on which a violation
occurs or continues or is permitted to occur or continue. (Ord. 94-30, 12-14-
1994)
CHAPTER 16
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY SALES
SECTION:
6-16-1: Notice Of Sale Of Property
6-16-2: Certificate Of Compliance
6-16-3: Inspection Fees
6-16-4: False Statements
6-16-5: Penalty
6-16-1: NOTICE OF SALE OF PROPERTY:
All the owners, agents, brokers or any individual or legal entity having
ownership or control of any residential property which is offered for sale
within the Village must notify the Village Clerk within five (5) days after the
first real estate listing agreement is executed or within five (5) days after
public notification of an intent to sell is made or published, whichever shall
occur first. The notification shall be in writing on a form made available at
the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 91-10, 7-23-1991)
6-16-2: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   (A)   No residential property shall be sold unless the owner or lessor shall
furnish the buyer or tenant with a certificate of compliance based on an
inspection of such property made within fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
sale or tenancy. The certificate of compliance must state that the property
complies with the applicable building, zoning and other related regulations of
the Village, or, in alternative, list the building, zoning or other violations,
and all violations must be brought up to Code prior to occupancy or water turn
on. (Ord. 2018-05, 5-8-2018)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter occupy, by purchase,
rental, lease or otherwise, or for any owner or agent thereof to permit the
occupation of any residential property or addition thereof, or part thereof,
for any purpose until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the
Building Commissioner. Said certificate is required for each and every separate
occupancy and in the case of rental or lease, said certificate is required for
each new tenant. (Ord. 91-10, 7-23-1991)
6-16-3: INSPECTION FEES:
Each applicant for the certificate of compliance shall pay an inspection fee in
the amount of one hundred eighty dollars ($180.00) to the Village Collector. An
additional inspection fee of one hundred five dollars ($105.00) per unit shall
be charged for the inspection of a multi-family residence consisting of two (2)
or more units when the inspection is made in conjunction with the sale of such
a building. (Ord. 2018-05, 5-8-2018)
6-16-4: FALSE STATEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement in
the notice of intent to sell residential property. (Ord. 91-10, 7-23-1991)
6-16-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or refuses to remedy a
violation found to exist and reported on the certificate of compliance within
the time therein specified, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation of
this chapter occurs or continues. (Ord. 91-10, 7-23-1991)
CHAPTER 17
RENTAL STRUCTURES AND UNITS
SECTION:
6-17-1: Registration Requirements
6-17-2: Suspension Or Revocation Of Certificate Of Registration
6-17-3: Certificate Of Housing Inspection
6-17-4: Definitions
6-17-5: New Owner Or Lessee
6-17-6: Nonliability Of Village
6-17-7: Penalty
6-17-8: Short Term Rental Units Prohibited
6-17-1: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No dwelling structure shall be operated as a rental dwelling structure
unless the owner or landlord of such structure holds a current, unrevoked
certificate of registration issued by the village, in his or its name for the
specific named rental dwelling structure. For the purpose of this section and
this chapter, a dwelling structure containing one or more dwelling units
therein, shall constitute a rental dwelling structure.
   (B)   Every certificate of registration shall be issued for a period of one
year from its date of issuance unless sooner revoked, and may be renewed for
successive annual periods.
   (C)   No certificate of registration shall be issued or renewed unless the
owner or landlord has first made application therefor on an application form
provided by the village building department. Initial application for
registration shall be filed with the building inspector within thirty (30) days
after the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   The building inspector is hereby authorized to investigate and to
issue new certificates of registration upon application therefor, and renewals
thereof, in the names of applicant owners or operators of rental dwelling
structures. No such certificate shall be issued unless the rental dwelling
structure in connection with which the certificate is sought is found, after
inspection by the building inspector or his designee, to meet all requirements
of this code and of applicable rules and regulations pursuant hereto. Each
applicant shall be notified by the building inspector in advance of the date
and time of such inspection. (Ord. 91-11, 7-23-1991; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-
1994)
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued or renewed unless the
completed application form is accompanied by payment of an annual registration
fee. The annual registration fee for operating licenses for rental dwellings
shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per dwelling unit. (Ord. 2002-12, 5-14-2002)
   (F)   No certificate of registration shall be issued or renewed for an
applicant unless such applicant has first designated an agent for the receipt
of service of complaints for violation of the provisions of any of the village
codes, and for service of process pursuant thereto when said applicant is
absent from the village for thirty (30) days or more. Such designation shall be
made in writing and shall accompany each application form.
   (G)   An application for renewal of a certificate of registration shall be
made thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the present certificate.
   (H)   Each certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the
common ways of the rental dwelling. Every person holding a certificate shall
give notice in writing to the building inspector within five (5) days after
having transferred or otherwise disposed of the legal control of any registered
rental dwelling. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person
or persons succeeding to the ownership or control of such rental dwelling.
(Ord. 91-11, 7-23-1991; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-1994)
6-17-2: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Whenever, upon inspection of a rental dwelling for initial
registration or renewal of a certificate of registration under the provisions
of this chapter, the building inspector finds that conditions or practices
exist which are in violation of the provisions of this section, or of any
applicable provisions of the village code, or of any applicable rules or
regulations pursuant thereto, the building inspector shall serve the owner or
operator with notice of such violation or violations. Such notice shall state
that unless the violations cited are corrected within a reasonable time of not
less than five (5) days, except for emergency situations, the certificate of
registration may be suspended.
   (B)   At the end of the time the building inspector has allowed for
correction of any violation cited, the building inspector, or his duly
authorized designee, shall reinspect the rental dwelling and if he determines
that such conditions have not been corrected, he may issue an order suspending
the certificate to take effect five (5) days following service upon the
landlord unless, in the interim, the landlord requests, in writing, a hearing.
   (C)   Any person whose certificate of registration for a rental dwelling is
subject to suspension pursuant to a suspension order shall be entitled to a
hearing on the suspension action by filing with the Village Clerk, a written
request for a hearing before the Village's Building Committee within two (2)
business days following the receipt of the suspension order. Upon receipt of
said request, hearing shall be scheduled to be held before the Village's
Building Committee at a date not more than ten (10) business days thereafter.
Upon completion of the hearing, the Village's Building Committee may either:
      1.   Confirm the suspension; or
      2.   Suspend the suspension and allow additional compliance time; or
      3.   Rescind the suspension.
   (D)   If no petition for reconsideration of a suspension order is filed as
provided above, then the suspension order shall remain in effect until the
violations in question have been corrected, as determined by the building
inspector upon inspection of the structure.
   (E)   In the event a certificate of registration is suspended, and such
suspension is affirmed after hearing, if any, during the period of suspension:
      1.   No existing rental agreement shall be renewed and no new rental
agreement shall be entered into with respect to any rental unit located within
the dwelling.
      2.   The Village shall have the right to seek enforcement of any other
applicable law. (Ord. 91-11, 7-23-1991; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-1994)
6-17-3: CERTIFICATE OF HOUSING INSPECTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or landlord of any rental structure
to contract for the sale of said structure, or to lease a dwelling unit
contained therein without having first tendered to the buyer, or lessee, a
certificate of housing inspection of the subject property made within one month
before the date of the conveyance or lease of the subject property. (Ord. 91-
11, 7-23-1991; amd. Ord. 94-26, 10-12-1994)
   (B)   All applications for a certificate of housing inspection shall be made
on such forms as prescribed by the building inspector. The building inspector
shall issue a certificate within fourteen (14) days after inspection of the
subject property which shall be consented to by the owner and landlord, in
writing and after the payment of forty five dollar ($45.00) inspection fee for
each dwelling unit inspected per inspector. The Building Department shall
inspect the subject property for compliance with the Building, Housing,
Property Maintenance, Zoning Codes and ordinances of the Village. All
deficiencies shall be noted on said certificate. It is unlawful for a person
who is the owner, or landlord, of a rental structure to permit occupancy of any
dwelling unit in said structure until all building deficiencies shall be
remedied, and the structure brought into compliance with this Code. (Ord. 2018-
05, 5-8-2018)
   (C)   No evidence obtained in a consented inspection of real property
pursuant to this chapter shall be used in the prosecution of any criminal or
ordinance violation other than for violations of subsection (B) of this
section, against the owner or landlord of the property when inspection was
made.
   (D)   Where no consent has been given to enter or inspect any property, no
entry or inspection shall be made without the procurement of a warrant from the
Circuit Court of Cook County. The court may consider any of the following
factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as
to whether a warrant shall issue:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation.
      2.   Citizen complaints.
      3.   Tenant complaints.
      4.   Plain view violations.
      5.   Violations apparent from Village records.
      6.   Property deterioration.
      7.   Age of property.
      8.   Nature of alleged violation.
      9.   Similar properties in the area.
      10.   Documented violations of similar properties in the area.
      11.   Passage of time since last inspection.
      12.   Previous violation on the property.
Cause for issuance of a warrant shall be deemed to exist in light of reasonable
legislative and administrative standards which show that there is reason to
believe that a condition of nonconformity exists with respect to a particular
property in violation of Village ordinance.
6-17-4: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING COMMITTEE: Building Commissioner, Electrical Inspector, Fire Inspector
and Trustee in charge of Committee.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a structure or portion thereof arranged,
designed and used as a residence or living quarters by one or more persons, and
containing therein bathroom and kitchen facilities.
LANDLORD: The owner, lessor or sublessor of the dwelling unit or the building
of which it is a part.
OWNER: One or more persons, a corporation, a partnership, or any other legal
entity, jointly or severally in whom is vested all or part of the legal title
to the premises, or all or part of the beneficial ownership and a right to
present use and enjoyment of the premises, including a mortgage holder in
possession.
RENTAL MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING STRUCTURE: A dwelling structure, containing two
(2) or more dwelling units.
6-17-5: NEW OWNER OR LESSEE:
Nothing herein shall prohibit the sale or lease of real estate to a new owner
or new lessee even if no certificate of registration nor a certificate of
housing inspection has been obtained, or even if either or both of such
certificates show deficiencies thereon.
6-17-6: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village does not guarantee the condition of any property which is the
subject matter of this Chapter, and the Village is not responsible for any
claims arising out of the subject property or the condition thereof. The
Village does not warrant that all deficiencies are listed in a certificate and
does not warrant anything as to the condition of the property or the
habitability thereof.
6-17-7: PENALTY:
   (A)   That any owner, or landlord, or person, firm or corporation who
violates, neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists or opposes the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less that fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than five hundred
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided for in this Section, the Village
may file suit seeking the demolition, repair, enclosure, or such other relief,
as provided for in the Illinois Municipal Code. (Ord. 91-11, 7-23-91)
6-17-8: SHORT TERM RENTAL UNITS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to protect and preserve the
quiet enjoyment of residential properties and neighborhoods within the Village
and to mitigate or eliminate adverse secondary effects the Village and its
residents may experience by reason of short term rentals of residential
structures in the Village, including, but not limited to, excessive noise,
litter, and light pollution; traffic congestion; overcrowded parking; and
criminal activity.
   (B)   Definitions: For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
 
                        All or part of a residential building or dwelling unit
                        located in any zoning district, being leased, rented,
                        offered for rent, hired out, licensed, or otherwise let
                        as an accessory use or occupancy to a person or persons
                        other than the owner of the subject property or a
                        family member of the owner thereof for a period or term
                        that is less than thirty (30) consecutive days. The
                        term "short term rental unit" shall also include a
SHORT TERM RENTAL UNIT: dwelling unit or accessory building, or part thereof,
                        used for overnight accommodation that is available for
                        rent by transient guests for a period or term that is
                        less than thirty (30) consecutive days. The term "short
                        term rental unit" shall not include a hotel, apartment
                        hotel, or motel located in a zoning district as
                        permitted by Sections
                        11-5-1 and
                        11-6-1 of this Code.
 
   (C)   Nuisance Declared: Short term rental units as defined in this article
are hereby declared to be and shall constitute nuisances and may be abated
accordingly pursuant to any and all available remedies.
   (D)   Short Term Rental Units Restricted; Exceptions:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, leasing, renting, hiring out,
licensing, or letting; offering or inviting the leasing, renting, hiring out,
licensing, or letting; or otherwise permitting a short term rental unit or
occupancy thereof for a period or term that is less than thirty (30)
consecutive days shall be prohibited, and such conduct shall be prohibited,
whether engaged in or participated in by the owner of the property, one or more
agents of the property owner, or by any person leasing, or seeking to lease as
a lessor, or renting or seeking to rent as lessee or otherwise occupy a
premises, or part thereof, as tenant or temporary occupant thereof.
      (2)   The term of any lease or occupancy agreement which has satisfied
the minimum term required by this article may be extended on a month-to-month
basis on the condition that the tenant or tenants remain the same.
      (3)   The prohibition on short term rental units shall not apply when the
immediately preceding owner of a property maintains possession of the dwelling
unit after closing on a real estate transaction for the sale thereof and leases
said property back from the successor owner for a period of time pursuant to a
written agreement.
      (4)   The prohibition on short term rental units shall not apply to
hotels, apartment hotels or motels located in a zoning district as permitted by
Sections
11-5-1 and
11-6-1 of this Code.
   (E)   Penalty:
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in this Code to the
contrary, any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per day, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day. Unless
exempted by this article, each day a residential building, dwelling unit, or
any accessory building, or part thereof, is offered for rent as a short term
rental unit; is leased, rented, hired out, licensed, or let as a short term
rental unit; or is occupied as a short term rental unit shall constitute a
separate violation of this article. Without any limitation on the foregoing,
each day a violation of this article occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense, and each such offense shall be subject to not less than the minimum
daily fine.
      (2)   Except where otherwise permitted, the restrictions contained in
this article shall be interpreted as minimum standards, and shall be in
addition to any other applicable Village Ordinances and requirements that apply
to short term rental units or the properties on which they are located. (Ord.
2023-02, 1-10-2023)
CHAPTER 17A
VACANT BUILDING AND FORECLOSURE REGISTRATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
6-17A-1: Purpose And Intent
6-17A-2: Other Ordinances
6-17A-3: Definitions
6-17A-4: Enforcement Authority; Vacant Building Determination
6-17A-5: Obligation To Register Vacant Structures
6-17A-6: Required Registration Information And Procedure
6-17A-7: Owner Obligation To Post A Sign
6-17A-8: Registration Of Defaulted/Foreclosed Properties
6-17A-9: Registration Fees; Renewal
6-17A-10: Obligation To Secure Building
6-17A-11: Interior Maintenance Standards
6-17A-12: Minimum Maintenance Requirements For Lot
6-17A-13: Public Nuisance/Abatement
6-17A-14: Enforcement And Penalties
6-17A-15: Administration Adjudication
6-17A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents, workers, visitors, property owners, and proprietors
of the Village and the economic stability and viability, and livability of
neighborhoods in the Village by requiring the registration and monitoring of
vacant properties, foreclosed and defaulted properties. This program will
protect and preserve the livability, appearance and social fabric of the
Village and will also protect the public from the health and safety hazards and
impairment of property values resulting from the neglect and deterioration of
real property and improvements.
It is the intent of the Mayor and Village Board, through the adoption of this
chapter, to establish a mechanism to protect neighborhoods from becoming
blighted through the lack of maintenance and security of vacant property,
occupied and vacant foreclosed property, and vacant defaulted properties, to
establish a vacant property registration program and a foreclosed and defaulted
property registration and abatement program; and to set forth guidelines for
the maintenance of occupied and vacant and/or distressed properties. In
addition, this chapter provides for the registration and inspection of occupied
properties to aid on foreclosure, prevention efforts and because such
properties have an increased potential to become vacant or blighted.
This chapter shall be construed liberally to affect its purposes. (Ord. 2018-
23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-2: OTHER ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations that prescribe
standards other than those provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purposes of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
ABANDONED: Any building, structure or real property that is vacant, as defined
herein, or occupied by a person or persons without a legal right of occupancy.
Abandoned also includes any real property that is vacant or shows evidence of
vacancy and is the subject to a lis pendens, or Notice of Default and/or Notice
of Sheriff's Sale, or a foreclosure sale where title was retained by the
mortgagee in the foreclosure, or has been transferred under a deed in lieu of
foreclosure or sale to the mortgagee.
ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY/STRUCTURE: Property or a structure that unauthorized
persons may gain access or entry to the interior space through a compromised/
breached/unsecured gate, door, fence, wall, window, or other point of entry.
AGREEMENT: Any agreement or written instrument which provides that title to
real property shall be transferred or conveyed from owner to another owner
after the sale, trade, transfer or exchange.
ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS: An instrument that transfers the beneficial interest under
a deed of trust from one lender/entity to another.
BENEFICIARY: A lender or other person or entity holding, owning, participating
in, or otherwise having an interest in the proceeds for a loan represented by a
note secured by a deed of trust.
BLIGHTED PROPERTY: Property that has broken or severely damaged windows, doors,
walls, or roofs which create hazardous conditions and encourage trespassing;
property whose maintenance is not in conformance with the other neighboring
properties causing a decrease in the value of neighboring properties;
properties cited for a public nuisance pursuant to this Code; or property that
endangers the public health, safety or welfare because the property or
improvements thereon are dilapidated, deteriorated or violates minimum health
and safety standards or lacks maintenance as required by applicable codes. See
also definition of "dangerous or unsafe building".
BOARDED: The partial or full covering, securing, or reinforcing with plywood,
lumber or comparable materials of windows, skylights, doors/sidelights/
transoms, underfloor access, and similar exterior openings in buildings or
portions thereof which is extended to dissuade, mitigate, and prevent vandalism
and unauthorized entry.
BUILDING (STRUCTURE): Any physical edifice that is built or installed and is
located on and affixed to the land and used for or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy. These terms "building" and "structure", as
used in this chapter, shall be synonymous and shall include any portion
thereof.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OR INSPECTOR: Any authorized agent or employee of the
Village of Posen whose duty it is to assure Code compliance.
DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE BUILDING: Any building or structure that is found to pose a
danger to the life, health, property or safety of the public by failing to
provide minimum safeguards and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease
or cause injury to emergency personnel or to neighboring buildings, or because
the building contains unsafe equipment, or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
or structurally unsafe or of such faulty or incomplete construction or
unstable, that partial or complete collapse or system failures are possible.
See also definition of "blighted property".
DAYS: Consecutive calendar days.
DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE/SALE: A recorded document that transfers ownership
of a property from the trustor to the holder of a deed of trust upon consent of
the beneficiary of the deed of trust, without completion of a foreclosure
proceeding.
DEED OF TRUST: An instrument by which title to real estate is transferred to a
third party trustee as security for a real estate loan. This definition applies
to any and all subsequent deeds of trust, i.e., second trust deed, third trust
deed, etc.
DEFAULT: The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation for which a mortgagee,
lender or trustor files or has the ability to file a foreclosure action or
public notice of default on the mortgage.
DEPARTMENT: The Village of Posen Housing Department.
DISTRESSED: Any property that is subject to a current notice of default and/or
notice of trustee sales, pending tax assessor's lien sale and/or any real
property conveyed via a foreclosure sale resulting in the acquisition of title
by an interested beneficiary of a deed of trust, and/or any real property
conveyed via deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale, regardless of vacancy or
occupancy by a person with no legal right to occupancy.
EVIDENCE OF OCCUPANCY: Any condition visible from the exterior that on its own,
or combined with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the property is legally occupied. Such conditions include, but are
not limited to, secured/locked structures; active utility services; the absence
of overgrown and/or dead vegetation; the absence of an accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; the absence of an accumulation of
shutters; the presence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
residential habitation; statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or
government employees that the property is legally occupied; or actual contact
with occupants.
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition visible from the exterior that on its own or
combined with other conditions present would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the property is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not
limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, flyers and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto
parts or materials; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds
and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with occupancy or habitation; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming
pool; statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or government
employees that the property is vacant; the presence of boards over doors,
windows or other openings in violation of applicable codes; unsecured doors or
other openings; habitation by vagrants/transients/trespassers, and lack of
marketing for purposes of selling or renting property.
FORECLOSED OR FORECLOSED PROPERTY: Property that was the subject of a
foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary or the
trustee of a deed of trust involved in the foreclosure or transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale, and for which the trustee's deed upon sale
of deed in lieu of foreclosure has been recorded.
FORECLOSURE: The legal process by which the mortgagee, or other lien holder,
terminates a property owner's equitable right of redemption to obtain legal and
equitable title to the real property pledged as security for a debt or the real
property subject to the lien. This definition shall include, but is not limited
to public notice of default, a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, sale to the
mortgagee or lien holder, certificate of title and all other processes,
activities, and actions, by whatever name, associated with the described
process. The process is not concluded until the property obtained by the
mortgagee, lien holder, or its designee, by certificate of title or any other
means, is sold to a non-related bona-fide purchaser in an arms length
transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
INSPECTION: A physical investigation at a property to obtain evidence of
occupancy or vacancy, or the physical condition of the property and/or to
verify compliance with this chapter and any other applicable code or law. In
the case of a property that is the subject of a notice of default, but has not
yet been foreclosed, the inspection need only consist of a visual inspection of
the exterior of the property.
LIEN: The legal claim of the Village upon the property of another to secure the
payment of a debt or the performance of a legal obligation.
LOCAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY: A property manager, property management
company or similar entity responsible for the maintenance and security of
registrable property within twenty (20) miles of the Village limits. The local
property management company or its employees must be able to be located and
serviced at the local address during a majority of the working week (Monday
through Friday, 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.). Upon review of credentials, the
Village or its designee may allow a non-local property manager to be listed.
MORTGAGEE: The creditor, including, but not limited to, trustees, mortgage
service companies, banks, lenders, seller under an installment contract,
articles of deed, articles of agreement for deed, or other such similar
agreement, or other such financial entities in a mortgage agreement, and any
agent, servant, or employee of the mortgagee, or any successor in interest and/
or assignee of the mortgagees rights, interests, or obligations under the
mortgage contractual agreement.
NOTICE OF DEFAULT: A recorded notice that a default has occurred under a deed
of trust and that the beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's sale.
NUISANCE PROPERTY: Any property, whether residential or commercial, which has
remained vacant more than twenty four (24) months from the original issuance of
a Vacant Structure Registration Certificate. All properties which are vacant on
January 1, 2019 and have been vacant for five (5) years prior thereto, shall be
automatically deemed a nuisance property by the Village Housing Department.
OWNER: Without limitation, every person, agent, operator, firm, corporation,
entity, or service company, who alone or jointly or severally with others, and
with or without the right of possession:
   (A)   Has the legal or equitable title to, or having control of, any
building, dwelling, dwelling unit, land or structure; or
   (B)   Has care, charge, or control of any building, dwelling, dwelling unit,
land or structure, in any capacity, including, but not limited to agent,
executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate holder of legal
title pursuant to a court order, trust agreement or other such similar
agreement; or
   (C)   Is a mortgagee which, under the terms of mortgage, has a contractual
responsibility for the property, or pursuant to a provision in the mortgage
agreement, the mortgagee is authorized to act to secure or repair the property
under any circumstance or where mortgagor no longer takes responsibility for
the property; or is a mortgagee in possession of any such property; or is a
mortgagee that has instituted foreclosure proceedings against the mortgagor; or
   (D)   Is an officer, member of a board of managers, or trustee of the
association of unit owners of a condominium or townhouse complex with direct
control over the property pursuant to applicable State law, declaration and/or
bylaws; or
   (E)   Is an agent, trustee or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any property; or
   (F)   Is a party under an installment contract, articles of agreement for
deed, articles of deed, or any other such similar agreement.
OWNER OF RECORD: The person holding recorded title to the property in question
at any point in time when official records are produced by the Cook County
Recorder's Office.
PERSON: Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company or any such entities.
PREMISES: A lot, plot of parcel of land including any structures thereon.
PROPERTY: Any improved residential or commercial real estate, buildings,
leasehold improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion thereof,
identified by a property parcel identification number (PIN), located within the
corporate limits of the Village. Developed lots are considered improved land.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY: A local property manager, property maintenance
company or similar entity responsible for the maintenance of registrable real
property.
REGISTRABLE PROPERTY: Registrable property means:
   (A)   Any property located within the Village that is vacant as defined in
this chapter; or
   (B)   Any property located within the Village, whether vacant or occupied,
that is encumbered by a mortgage in default, is subject to ongoing foreclosure
actions by the mortgagee or trustee, is subject to an application for a tax
deed or pending tax assessor's lien sale, or has been the subject of a
foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a "default/foreclosure"
property as "registrable" shall remain in place until such time as the property
is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arms length transaction or
the foreclosure action has been dismissed and any default on the mortgage has
been cured.
REGISTRATION STATEMENT OF INTENT: The form that is to be completed by the owner
or mortgagee of a vacant structure and/or responsible parties, which contains
specific information regarding the structure and the owner's/mortgagee's/
responsible parties' plans for its rehabilitation, maintenance, sale,
demolition or removal.
RENTAL PROPERTY: Property that contains a single-family rental dwelling unit or
multi-family rental dwelling units for use by residential tenants including but
not limited to the following: mobile homes, mobile home spaces, town homes and
condominium units. A rental dwelling unit includes property that is provided to
an individual or entity for residential purposes upon payment of rent or any
other consideration in lieu of rent, regardless of the relationship between the
lessor and lessee.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any and all owners, as defined hereinabove, tenants,
occupiers, property managers and lessee of any building, whether residential or
commercial, alone or jointly or severally.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacant pursuant to a hearing relating to Code
violations.
VACANT: A building that shows evidence of vacancy, as defined hereinabove, and/
or is lacking the habitual presence of human beings who have a legal right to
be on the premises, or at which substantially all lawful business or
construction operations or residential occupancy has ceased, or which is devoid
of content, or does not have a certificate of occupancy. In addition to
evidence of vacancy, in determining whether a building is vacant, it is
relevant to consider, among other factors, the percentage of overall square
footage of the building or floor to the occupied space, and the condition and
value of any items in the building; provided that a residential property shall
not be deemed vacant if, a person or entity with an interest in the property
proves, by a preponderance of the evidence that it has been used as a residence
by a person entitled to possession for at least three (3) months within the
previous nine (9) months and a person entitled to possession intends to resume
residing at the property; and further providing that a multi-family property
containing five (5) or more dwelling units shall be considered vacant when
ninety percent (90%) or more of the dwelling units are unoccupied. For non-
residential property, such property shall be considered vacant for purposes of
this chapter if business operations are conducted daily on less than ten
percent (10%) of the overall square footage of the building. A property shall
not be considered if there is a building that is secure, but is the subject of
a probate action, action to quiet title, or other ownership.
WINTERIZED: Cleaning all toilets and completely draining all plumbing and
heating systems. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-4: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; VACANT BUILDING DETERMINATION:
   (A)   The Village Housing Department is authorized to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, maintaining
lists setting forth the status of vacant structures. The department may
delegate its powers and duties under this chapter to appropriate administrator,
inspector or designated consultant.
   (B)   The department shall evaluate all buildings within the Village limits
which it believes to be unoccupied and make a determination for each as to
whether the building is vacant as defined in this chapter. In making a
determination as to whether a structure is vacant for purposes of this chapter,
the department shall also consider other factors, including, without
limitation, the presence of rental or for sale signs on the property; whether
there has been any construction or legal repairs within the preceding three (3)
months; whether windows and/or doors are broken, boarded up, removed, or
unhinged; the status of utility services; and/or police activity for
trespassers, vandalism or other illegal acts being committed at the property
within the preceding three (3) months. For purposes of non-residential
property, such structures may be deemed vacant where the business operations
are conducted daily on less than ten percent (10%) of the total square footage
of the building, or where all lawful business has ceased for at least three (3)
months. For non-residential buildings that are less than ten (10) years old on
the dates that the department makes its vacancy determination, and such
buildings have no ordinance violations, then in that event the department shall
require that such non- residential buildings shall be registered and pay the
appropriate fees.
   (C)   For buildings the department has designated as vacant, a notice of
determination shall be sent to all owners and responsible parties requiring the
registration of the vacant building. The notice of determination shall be
mailed via first class United States mail to the last known address based on
mailing information found in public records, including, without limitation,
information in the most recent Cook County Tax Roll or information kept in the
records of the Illinois Secretary of State. Failure of delivery shall not
excuse a person from complying with this chapter. The department may also
personally serve or cause personal service of the notice of determination. Any
person making such service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of
service. Proof of service shall be kept in the records prepared in the normal
course of the department's duties. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-5: OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Notice Of Determination By The Housing Department: Within ten (10)
days of the issuance of a notice of determination by the department, the owner
of the structure shall register the vacant structure with the department and
pay the appropriate fee as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Notification To The Village: The owner of any building that has become
vacant shall within thirty (30) days, after the building has become vacant or
within thirty (30) days after assuming ownership of the building, whichever is
later, register the vacant structure with the department and pay the
appropriate fee set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Registration: Registration of vacant structures shall be done semi-
annually.
   (D)   Fee Exemption: Eleemosynary, religious, educational, benevolent or
charitable associations organized on a not-for- profit basis and all
governmental agencies shall be exempt for the payment of the registration fee.
   (E)   Registration Renewal: The owner shall be required to renew the
registration semi-annually and be required to renew such registration as long
as the building remains vacant.
   (F)   Registration As Proof: The registration statement shall be deemed
prima facie proof of the statements therein contained in any administrative
enforcement proceedings or court proceeding instituted by the Village against
the owner or owners of the building.
   (G)   Property Inspection: During the period of registration, the owner
shall provide access to the Village to conduct inspections of the property,
both interior and exterior, as deemed necessary by the Village, following
reasonable notice, to determine compliance with this chapter and any other
relevant codes and ordinances of the Village.
   (H)   Code Compliance: The owner shall comply with all applicable ordinances
of the Village and/or State laws including, without limitation, property
maintenance, building, fire, and zoning ordinances in this Code, and as amended
from time to time. To this end, the owner shall apply for all building, fire,
zoning or other permits necessary to bring the structure into compliance within
thirty (30) days of registering the property. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff.
10-23-2018)
6-17A-6: REQUIRED REGISTRATION INFORMATION AND PROCEDURE:
   (A)   All owners or persons required to register a property pursuant to this
chapter, shall file with the Village the registration form provided, which
shall contain, among other things, the following information:
      1.   The exact street address of the property, the primary intended use
of the property, and if the property is a multi-unit structure, the total
number of dwelling units in each building on the property.
      2.   The owner's name(s), mailing address(es), email address(es) and
telephone number(s), including cell phone number(s). The address may not be a
post office box. If the property is owned by a corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or real estate investment
trust, the name and address of any of the following shall be provided:
         (a)   For corporation, a corporate officer and the chief operating
officer;
         (b)   For a partnership, the managing partner;
         (c)   For limited liability company, the managing member;
         (d)   For a limited partnership, the general partner;
         (e)   For a trust, the trustee; and
         (f)   For a real estate investment trust, the general partner or an
officer.
      3.   The name, street address and telephone number of a natural person
twenty one (21) years of age or older, designated by the owner(s) as the
authorized local property agent for receiving notice of Code violations and for
receiving process, in any court proceeding or administrative enforcement
proceeding, on behalf of the owner(s) in connection with the enforcement of
this chapter. This local property agent must be located within twenty (20)
miles of the corporate boundaries of the Village. The registration shall
include the name of the designated local agent, the mailing address, telephone
number and email address. Mailing address of the designated local agent may not
be a post office box.
         (a)   An owner is a natural person and who meets the requirements of
this subsection as to location of residence or office may designate him/herself
as agent.
         (b)   By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of this
subsection, the owner(s) is consenting to receive any and all notices of Code
violations concerning the registered building by service of the notice or
process on the authorized agent.
         (c)   Any owner who has designated an authorized agent under the
provisions of this subsection shall be deemed to consent to the continuation of
the agent's designation for the purposes of this subsection until the owner
notifies the department of a change of authorized agent or until the owner
files a new registration statement.
         (d)   Any owner who fails to register a vacant building under the
provisions of this chapter shall further be deemed to consent to receive, by
posting at the building, any and all notices of Code violations and all process
in administration proceeding to enforce Code provisions concerning the
building.
   (B)   The registering party will also be required to fill out a
"Registration Statement of Intent" setting forth the expected period of vacancy
and plans for the property, including plans to rehabilitate, maintain, sell, or
demolish the property.
   (C)   An amended registration must be filed within seven (7) days of any
change in the information contained in the semi-annual registration. A new
registration fee is required for any change in ownership, regardless of the
nature of the transfer of title. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-7: OWNER OBLIGATION TO POST A SIGN:
The owner of any building that has become vacant, shall within thirty (30)
days:
   (A)   Post a sign affixed to the building indicating: the vacant building
registration number and the name, address, and telephone number of the owner or
owner's authorized agent for the purpose of service of process. The name,
address, and telephone number of a person responsible for the day-to-day
supervision and management of the building, if such a person is different from
the owner, the authorized agent shall be indicated on the sign as well. The
sign shall be legible, be no smaller than 8.5 inches by eleven inches (8.5" x
11") and placed in such location so as to be visible from the nearest public
street or sidewalk, whichever is nearer; and
   (B)   Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain
the sign, until the building is again occupied or demolished. (Ord. 2018-23,
10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-8: REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED/FORECLOSED PROPERTIES:
   (A)   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on property located within the
Village shall perform an inspection of the property to determine vacancy or
occupancy, upon default of the mortgagor. The mortgagee shall, within ten (10)
days of the inspection, register the property with the Housing Department, or
its duly authorized designee, on forms or other manner as directed, and
indicate whether the property is vacant or occupied. A separate registration is
required for each property, whether it is found to be vacant or occupied.
   (B)   Registration pursuant to this section, shall contain the name, direct
mailing address, a direct contact name, telephone number, and email address for
the mortgagee and the name, address, and twenty four (24) hour contact phone
number of the local property management company responsible for security and
maintenance of the property who has the authority to make decisions concerning
the abatement of nuisance conditions at the property, as well as any
expenditure in connection therewith. Mailing address of the mortgagee and the
local property management company may not be a post office box.
      1.   By designating a local property management company under the
provisions of this subsection, the mortgagee is consenting to receive any and
all notices of Code violations concerning the registered building by service of
the notice or process on the local property management company.
      2.   A mortgagee who has designated a local property management company
under the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed to consent to the
continuation of the local property management company's designation for the
purposes of this subsection until the mortgagee notifies the department of a
change of local property management company or until the mortgagee files a new
registration statement.
   (C)   Mortgagees who have existing registrable property as of May 1, 2018
have thirty (30) calendar days to register the property with the department or
its authorized designee, on forms or other manner as directed, and indicate
whether the property is vacant or occupied. A separate registration is required
for each property whether vacant or occupied.
   (D)   If the mortgage on a registrable property is sold or transferred, the
new mortgagee is subject to all provisions of this chapter and within five (5)
days of the transfer, shall register the property and pay a registration fee in
accordance with this chapter. Any previous unpaid registration fees are the
responsibility of the new mortgagee or trustee and are due and payable with the
initial registration.
   (E)   If the mortgagee owner of a foreclosed property sells or transfers the
property to a non-arms length related person or entity, the transferee is
subject to all provisions of this chapter and within five (5) days of the
transfer, shall register the property and pay the registration fee in
accordance with this chapter. Any previous owed registration fees are the
responsibility of the new registrable property owner and are due and payable
with the initial registration.
   (F)   As long as the property is registrable, it shall be inspected by the
mortgagee, or designee, monthly. If an inspection shows a change in the
property's occupancy status the mortgagee shall, within ten (10) days of that
inspection, update the occupancy status of the property registration.
   (G)   A non-refundable registration fee, as provided below, shall accompany
each registration. All registration fees must be paid directly from the
mortgagee or owner. Third party registration fees are not allowed without
consent of the department and/or its authorized designee.
   (H)   Properties subject to this section shall be subject to the semi-annual
registration requirement, and inspection, security and maintenance standards as
provided by this chapter as long as they remain registrable.
   (I)   Until the mortgage or lien on the property in question is satisfied,
or legally discharged, the desire to no longer pursue foreclosure, the filing
of a dismissal of lis pendens and/or summary of final judgement and/or
certificate of title, voluntary or otherwise, does not exempt any mortgagee
holding the defaulted mortgage, from all requirements of this chapter as long
as the borrower is in default.
   (J)   Any person or legal entity that has registered a property under this
section must report any change of information contained in the registration
within ten (10) days of the change.
   (K)   Failure of a mortgagee to properly register or to modify the
registration form from time to time to reflect a change in circumstance as
required by this chapter is a violation of the chapter and shall be subject to
enforcement and any resulting monetary penalties.
   (L)   The mortgagee will also be required to fill out a "Registration
Statement of Intent" setting forth the expected period of vacancy and plans for
the property, including plans to rehabilitate, maintain, sell, or demolish the
property. Any subsequent mortgagee or transferee shall be required to fill out
a new "Registration Statement of Intent". (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-
23-2018)
6-17A-9: REGISTRATION FEES; RENEWAL:
   (A)   The fee for registering a vacant, a defaulted/foreclosed occupied
property or a defaulted/foreclosed vacant property shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   (B)   The registration shall be renewed semi-annually, with a renewal fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (C)   Payment of registration fee does not relieve or exempt the owner,
mortgagee, or other person from paying any and all fines, penalties, costs or
other charges assessed for non-compliance with the property maintenance
standards set forth in this chapter or other applicable Village Code provisions
and ordinances. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-10: OBLIGATION TO SECURE BUILDING:
   (A)   Owner Obligation: The owner of any building that has become vacant,
and any person maintaining, operating or collecting rent for any building that
has become vacant, shall within thirty (30) days, do the following to enclose
and secure the building:
      1.   Secure the building so that all building openings shall be closed
and secured, using secure doors, windows without broken or cracked panes,
commercial quality steel security panels, filled with like-kind materials as
the surrounding wall, or boarded with plywood installed and secured in
accordance with the rules and regulations issued by the Housing Department or
Building Department, as applicable, to prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
      2.   Secure the building so that at least one building entrance shall be
accessible from the exterior and secured with a door that is locked to allow
access only to authorized persons.
      3.   Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain
the sign until the building is reoccupied or demolished, repaired or completed
with all permits required by the Housing and/or Building Department. If during
the registration period and following initial boarding and securing of the
property in compliance with this section, the Housing Department notifies the
owner in writing that the property was found open or it has been judicially or
administratively found to be open, in each case on two (2) separate occasions
at least thirty (30) days apart, then the building shall thereafter be secured
with only commercial quality steel security panels or a method deemed
equivalent by the Housing or Building Department.
      4.   Foundations, basements, cellars, and crawlspaces shall be maintained
in sound and watertight condition adequate to support the building, and
protected against the entry of rodents and other animals.
      5.   Exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotting
boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit rain or dampness
to the interior portions of the walls or the interior spaces and shall be
protected against the entry of rodents or other animals.
      6.   Exterior windows and doors shall be maintained in sound condition
and good repair. Windows and doors shall fit tightly within their frames and
the frames shall be constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent
wall construction as to prevent rain from entering the building.
      7.   Exterior windows and doors shall be equipped with hardware for
locking and the locking mechanism shall be maintained in properly functioning
condition.
      8.   All points of possible ingress and egress including, but not limited
to, exterior windows and doors shall be secured to prevent unauthorized entry.
      9.   Any window which is broken, cracked or missing glass or glazing
shall be replaced and maintained in good repair or the building opening shall
otherwise be adequately secured pursuant to this section.
      10.   The roof shall be adequately supported, and shall be maintained in
a weather tight condition; the gutters, downspouts and appropriate flashing
shall be in good repair and adequate to remove water from the building or
structure.
      11.   Chimneys and flues shall be kept in sound, functional, weather
tight condition and in good repair.
      12.   Every outside stair or step shall be maintained in sound condition
and in good repair; every porch, stoop, deck, veranda, balcony and walk shall
be maintained in sound condition for its purpose.
      13.   All exit areas shall have continuous exterior lighting from dusk to
dawn; normal intensity of lighting shall be not less than two (2) foot candles
per square foot on the floor surfaces within an eight foot (8') radius around
said exit. This requirement may be met by use of battery-powered or solar-
powered lighting if such lighting meets the performance standards set by this
paragraph.
   (B)   Mortgage Obligation:
      1.   Defaulted/foreclosed properties subject to this chapter shall be
maintained in a secure manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized
persons.
      2.   A "secure manner" shall include, but not be limited to, the closure
and locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may
allow a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken
windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow a child to
access the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken
windows shall be secured by reglazing of the window.
      3.   If the property is registrable and the property has become vacant, a
local property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee or owner to bring
the property into compliance with subsection (A) of this section. The property
manager must perform regular inspections to verify compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and any other applicable Village Code or
ordinance. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-11: INTERIOR MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Owner Obligation: In addition to any other applicable Village Code or
ordinance which may apply to the property, the interior of any vacant building
shall be maintained by the owner as follows:
      1.   It is prohibited to accumulate or permit the accumulation of junk,
trash and debris, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, junk vehicles or any other
materials in such a manner that may produce any health, fire, or safety
hazards, or provide harborage for rodents and any other animals on the
premises; materials stored by the owner or permitted to be stored by the owner
shall be stacked safely, away from stairs or hallways, and any other places of
ingress and egress.
      2.   Every foundation, roof, floor, wall, stair, ceiling, and any other
structural support shall be safe and capable of supporting the loads that
normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition
and in good repair; floors and stairs shall be free of holes, grooves and
cracks that could be potentially hazardous.
      3.   Any plumbing fixtures shall either be winterized as defined in
section
6-17A-3 of this chapter or heated to resist being frozen.
      4.   Every exit door shall be secured with an internal deadlock bolt, or
with a locking mechanism deemed equivalent or better by the Housing or Building
Department, and every such exit door shall be capable of being opened from the
inside easily and without the use of a key or special knowledge.
      5.   Interior stairs shall have treads and risers that have uniform
dimensions, are sound, securely fastened, and have no rotting, loose, or
deteriorating supports.
      6.   Every owner shall be responsible for the extermination of insects,
rodents and other vermin in or about the premises.
   (B)   Mortgagee Obligation: If the property is registrable, and the property
has become vacant the mortgagee through its local property manager, shall bring
the interior of the property into compliance with subsection (A) of this
section, and any other applicable Village Code and ordinance. (Ord. 2018-23,
10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-12: MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR LOT:
   (A)   In addition to any other applicable Village Code or ordinance
requirement, for each vacant and defaulted/foreclosed occupied and vacant
property, the owner or mortgagee, or their local property manager must keep the
lot on which the vacant building stands in compliance with the following
requirements for as long as the property remains vacant:
      1.   The lot the building stands on, and the surrounding public way shall
be maintained as follows: All grass and weeds on the premises including the
abutting sidewalks, gutters and alleys shall be kept below ten inches (10") in
height, and all dead or broken tree limbs or shrubbery shall be cut and removed
from the premises.
      2.   The interior walkway leading to the main entry door, and any public
sidewalk adjoining the lot shall be shoveled clear of snow.
      3.   Junk, rubbish, waste, and any material that creates a health, safety
or fire hazard including, but not limited to, any mail, flyers or notices that
have been delivered to the building, except those required by Federal, State,
or local law, discarded personal items, including, but not limited to,
furniture, clothing. Large and small appliances, printed material or other
items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned, shall not be
permitted to accumulate.
      4.   No portion of the lot nor any structure, vehicle, receptacle or
object thereon shall be maintained or operated in any manner that cause or
produces any health or safety hazard or permits the premises to become a rodent
harborage or is conducive to rodent harborage.
      5.   The lot shall be maintained so that water does not accumulate or
stand on the ground.
      6.   All fences and gates shall be maintained in sound condition and in
good repair.
      7.   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar marking
by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches the color
of the exterior structure.
      8.   Front, side and rear yards, including landscaping, shall be
maintained in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Code and
ordinances at the time of registration was required.
      9.   Yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, grass, ground
covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designated specifically for residential installation.
Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or landscape shall not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar material.
      10.   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and
removal of trimmings.
      11.   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and
clear of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the applicable provisions
of this Code and ordinances. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-13: PUBLIC NUISANCE/ABATEMENT:
   (A)   Public Nuisance: The following buildings and structures are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance subject to abatement proceedings pursuant to
this chapter:
      1.   A building or structure found to be vacant and open after the
effective date of an order to secure and enclose issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or an Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer within the
previous twelve (12) months, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      2.   A building or structure that contains any violation of a health,
fire, electrical, plumbing, building or zoning provision of this Code or
ordinances which is imminently dangerous and hazardous.
      3.   A building or structure of which the costs of the repairs necessary
to bring the building or structure into compliance with applicable provisions
of this Code and ordinances would exceed the market value of the building or
structure after the repairs would have been made, or when the owner or
mortgagee cannot show that it has readily available and sufficient assets to
make such repairs or where such repairs otherwise are economically infeasible.
      4.   A building or structure where an owner or mortgagee has failed to
correct the Code violation(s) that form the basis of an adverse order or
judgment involving that building or structure, issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or an Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer, within sixty
(60) days of entry, unless such adverse order or judgement has been stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Abatement:
      1.   If the Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this chapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may temporarily
secure the property at the expense of the owner or mortgagee, and may bring the
violations before the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer as soon as
possible to address the condition of the property.
      2.   The Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall have the
authority to require the owner or mortgagee to implement additional maintenance
and/or security measures including, but not limited to, securing any and all
doors, windows, or other openings, employment of an on-site security guard, or
other measures as may be reasonably required to help prevent further decline of
the property.
      3.   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, the Administrative
Adjudication Hearing Officer may direct the Village to abate the violation.
(Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-14: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Except as otherwise set forth, any person found to be in violation of
provision of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Each day a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate offense. Prosecution under this section is a remedy cumulative to
any and all other remedies at law and equity, including remedies provided in
any applicable provision of this Code or ordinances, and/or under any
applicable State Statute.
   (B)   All fees, costs, or charges assessed or incurred by the Village
pursuant to this chapter shall be a lien upon the real property. The lien shall
be superior to all subsequent liens and encumbrances. The Housing Department
shall file a notice of lien within two (2) years after such costs and expenses
are incurred in the Office of Cook County Recorder of Deeds. The lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose, such as in the case of mortgage and
mechanics lien. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
6-17A-15: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise provided for,
may be enforced pursuant to title 1, chapter 15A, "Administrative
Adjudication", of this Code and as amended from time to time, which provides
for the administrative adjudication of certain ordinance violations. The
Village may also direct the Village Attorney to proceed before any court having
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including injunctive
relief. (Ord. 2018-23, 10-23-2018, eff. 10-23-2018)
CHAPTER 18
TERMITE PROTECTION FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
6-18-1: Termite Protection Treatment
6-18-1: TERMITE PROTECTION TREATMENT:
   (A)   All new residential construction shall require treatment against
termite infestation by a State certified professional prior to being issued an
occupancy permit.
   (B)   The general contractor/owner shall provide:
      1.   Proof of treatment to the Building Department in the form of a copy
of paid receipt from said certified termite treatment professional.
      2.   Transferrable treatment guarantee to the buyer of new residential
construction at their/his/her option. (Ord. 94-02, 2-9-94)
CHAPTER 19
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-19-1: Title
6-19-2: Purpose
6-19-3: Definitions
6-19-4: How To Use This Chapter
6-19-5: Duties Of The Village's Code Enforcement Officer
6-19-6: Base Flood Elevation
6-19-7: Flood Fringe Areas
6-19-8: Designated Floodways
6-19-9: SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified
6-19-10: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas
6-19-11: Other Development Requirements
6-19-12: Variances
6-19-13: Disclaimer Of Liability
6-19-14: Penalty
6-19-15: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
6-19-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the VILLAGE OF POSEN FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
pursuant to the Illinois municipal code and the village's home rule authority
pursuant to article VII, section 6 of the Illinois constitution. The purpose of
this chapter is to maintain this village's eligibility in the national flood
insurance program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic flooding
including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare; and to preserve
and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic and natural values
and provide for the wise utilization of water and related land resources. This
chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
   (A)   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18
rivers, lakes and streams act;
   (B)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   (C)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (D)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (E)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program;
   (G)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   (H)   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources; and
   (I)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter only, the following definitions are adopted:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A nonhabitable structure which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the state of Illinois, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection
6-19-8(B) of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the "base flood elevation" at any
location is as defined in section
6-19-6 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of critical facilities where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally depicted on
the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year
frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to
the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%)
increase in velocities.
   (A)   The floodways are designated for the village on the most recent
countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook County, Illinois, prepared by FEMA.
When two (2) floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway
limit shall prevail.
   (B)   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   (A)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building.
   (B)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (C)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges, or similar projects.
   (D)   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   (E)   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   (F)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   (G)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
   (H)   Substantial improvement of an existing building.
Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase
in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter pursuant
to state statute including, without limitation, state, federal or local units
of government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations which are set
forth at 44 CFR 59-79, as amended, or similar regulations.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency floods plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   (A)   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
FLOODWAY: See definition of Designated Floodway.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on the State Inventory Of Historic Places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency;
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year floodplain; amends the FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, floodplains or floodways as shown on an effective
FIRM.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Mitigation includes those measures necessary to minimize the
negative effects which floodplain development activities might have on the
public health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include: excavation
of compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel
restoration. Mitigation may also include those activities taken to reduce a
structure's susceptibility to flooding.
NAVD 88 (NATIONAL AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988): NAVD 88 supersedes the
national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD).
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures, including a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing and
proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall preclude
the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in part, of a
flood control project by persons or parties who are not public agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGIONAL PERMITS: Regional permits are offered for preapproved projects which
are considered minor projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR part 3708 rules
for northeastern Illinois regulatory floodways. A complete listing of the terms
and conditions for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR
website.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyors act 1  or any successor of that act.
REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the
state of Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 2
or any successor of that act.
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): See definition of Floodplain.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
STATEWIDE PERMITS: Statewide permits are offered for preapproved projects that
are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR part 3700
rules. A complete listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements can
be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption date hereof equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive
loss buildings. See definition of Repetitive Loss.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption date hereof
in which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or
repair is started.
   (A)   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
   (B)   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
6-19-4: HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER:
   (A)   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall be responsible for fulfilling all of
the duties listed in section
6-19-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   To fulfill those duties, the village's code enforcement officer or
such other person or entity designated by the village president should first
use the criteria listed in section
6-19-6, "Base Flood Elevation", of this chapter to determine whether the
development site is located within a floodplain.
   (C)   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the village's code enforcement officer must determine whether the
development site is within a flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an
SFHA or floodplain for which no floodway has been identified.
      1.   If the site is within a flood fringe, the village's code enforcement
officer or such other person or entity designated by the village president
shall require that the minimum requirements of section
6-19-7 of this chapter be met.
      2.   If the site is within a floodway, the village's code enforcement
officer or such other person or entity designated by the village president
shall require that the minimum requirements of section
6-19-8 of this chapter be met.
      3.   If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the village's code enforcement
officer or such other person or entity designated by the village president
shall require that the minimum requirements of section
6-19-9 of this chapter be met.
   (D)   In addition, the general requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
6-19-7,
6-19-8, or
6-19-9 of this chapter.
   (E)   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall assure that all subdivision proposals
shall meet the requirements of section
6-19-11 of this chapter.
   (F)   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the village's code
enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by the village
president shall review the requirements of section
6-19-12 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the village's
code enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by the
village president shall complete all notification requirements.
   (G)   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president may take any and all actions as
outlined in section
6-19-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-5: DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE'S CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   (A)   Generally: The following set forth in subsections (A) through (L) of
this section, inclusive, shall be the duties of the village's code enforcement
officer or such other person or entity designated by the village president.
   (B)   Determining The Floodplain Designation:
      1.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      2.   If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
      3.   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended SFHA
(with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating that the development
would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or inundation which
would be the basis for the applicant being required to delineate the floodplain
and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a licensed professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that the
development meets section
6-19-8 or
6-19-9 of this chapter.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the professional engineer shall
state in writing that the development meets the requirements of section
6-19-8 of this chapter.
   (D)   Dam Safety Requirements:
      1.   Consult with an engineer with dam safety knowledge to estimate a
hazard classification and determine if an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit is
required.
      2.   Determine whether a permit application submittal must be made to
IDNR/OWR for the construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams or
whether any other permit application must be made for the construction or
modification of a dam.
   (E)   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure any and all required federal, state
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   (F)   Plan Review And Permit Issuance:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter, and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   (G)   Inspection Review:
      1.   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      2.   Schedule on an annual basis an inspection of the floodplain and
document the results of the inspection.
   (H)   Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with subsection
6-19-10(C)3 of this chapter.
   (I)   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
      1.   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject
to section
6-19-10 of this chapter, and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
   (J)   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter; provided that the provision of
such information and records shall be subject to and governed by the provisions
of the freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.,
or the successor of that act.
   (K)   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to sections
6-19-8 and
6-19-9 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter pursuant to state
statute;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
section
6-19-3 of this chapter and all other state, federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the village and county, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of subsection
6-19-8(B)1 of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
6-19-8(B)3(e) of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
6-19-8(B)3(d) of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
6-19-8(B)3(a), (B)3(b), and (B)3(h) of this chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the mapped floodway or published flood profiles.
   (L)   Cooperation With Other Agencies:
      1.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this chapter;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six (6) months whenever a modification of the floodplain
may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain
map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter. (Ord. 2008-
21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-6: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance
study for the village.
      1.   If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available from federal, state or other
sources.
      2.   When a party disagrees with the best available data, they shall
submit a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better
data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to
any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be as
delineated on the most recent 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of Cook County, Illinois, prepared by FEMA and such amendments to such
study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (C)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an "AH zone" or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the most recent countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook
County, Illinois.
   (D)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance
rate map of Cook County shall be according to the best existing data available
from federal, state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood
elevations.
      1.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, HEC-RAS, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
      2.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-1, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States geological
survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
      3.   For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study.
      4.   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1
square mile) which has been identified by the village's code enforcement
officer or such other person or entity designated by the village president
pursuant to subsection
6-19-5(B)3 of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in this subsection (D). (Ord. 2008-21,
11-25-2008)
6-19-7: FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
   (A)   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the village's code enforcement officer or such other
person or entity designated by the village president.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988, and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings.
         (b)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
      3.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the village's code
enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by the village
president shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation.
         (a)   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected, but shown on the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      4.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas shall
be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
      5.   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity. The
village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by
the village president shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state,
and local permits have been obtained.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
      1.   Elevate With Fill: If fill is being used to elevate the site above
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall
submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for
the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      2.   Compensatory Storage:
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.5 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         (e)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
   (C)   Construction Of The Lowest Floor Below The Base Flood Elevation (BFE):
A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that removes a
site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate
the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the village to construct
the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood fringe.
The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall not issue such a permit unless the
applicant has complied with all the criteria set forth in the following
subsections:
      1.   Compensatory storage shall be provided per subsection (B)2 of this
section.
      2.   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
      3.   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the village code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president may waive the ten foot (10') minimum
setback distance if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that
an alternative method to protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. The certifications shall be in the form of a detailed
soils and structural design analysis, which shall be submitted to the village
code enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by the
village president for review. The village code enforcement officer or such
other person or entity designated by the village president may require such
additional documentation as necessary to prove that the proposed shorter
setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet (4').
      4.   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE.
However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained,
the village code enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated
by the village president may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback
distance if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an
alternative method to protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. A detailed soils analysis and structural design proving
that a shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from
flooding, shall be submitted to the village for review. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet (4').
      5.   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this subsection and is at least five feet (5') thick under
the basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to
require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of an LOMR-
F, if such fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification
and degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according
to ASTM standard D-2487, classification of soils for engineering purposes.
      6.   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the
soil must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the
same direction.
      7.   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
      8.   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five feet (5') below the BFE.
      9.   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
      10.   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
      11.   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      12.   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this subsection, the village code
enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by the village
president may allow the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the
applicant demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines
and requirements set forth in FEMA technical bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably
safe from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is
reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed
engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered
basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA
technical bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an
Illinois licensed professional engineer.
      13.   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in
no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-
25-2008)
6-19-8: DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
shall be as delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook
County, Illinois, and referenced in section
6-19-3 of this chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
   (A)   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the village code enforcement officer
or such other person or entity designated by the village president and IDNR/
OWR.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president. The application shall include the
following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         (c)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         (d)   Description of proposed activity;
         (e)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         (f)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         (g)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         (h)   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         (i)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         (j)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
         (k)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him(her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         (l)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
location of any channels and any existing or future access roads, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), designated
floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed
channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow,
and a graphic or numerical scale;
            (3)   Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
            (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance;
            (5)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         (m)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
         (n)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection (B)
of this section.
         (o)   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
         (p)   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a licensed
professional engineer, licensed architect or licensed land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
         (q)   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            (1)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed
work;
            (2)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative
locations or methods (see subsection (B)3(i) of this section) to accomplish the
purpose of the proposed work;
            (3)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection (B)3(i) of this section would
have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected;
and
            (4)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project,
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      2.   The village code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity.
         (a)   The village code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
         (b)   Licensed professional engineer, under the employ or contract of
the village shall review and approve applications reviewed under this section.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses:
      1.   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are
appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and
which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3708 or successor regulations will be allowed. Subject
to such regulations, the approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         (a)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail
systems, including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed
from any one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and
including open air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will
not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            (1)   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed 1.0 foot; or
            (2)   The applicant of a short term recreational use facility
parking lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events;
         (i)   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a
positive nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
         (j)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
         (k)   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged
building, provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the
building was damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the damage occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood
protection elevation;
         (l)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase
the enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building is improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will
be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      3.   Within the designated floodway, the construction of an appropriate
use will be considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets the
following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with
supporting plans, calculations and data by a licensed professional engineer and
provided that any structure meets the protection requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter:
         (a)   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
"n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Ven Te
Chow, "Open Channel Hydraulics", McGraw-Hill, New York, 1959.)
            (2)   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
            (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer
can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
   A.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the
water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
   B.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the
water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length.
   C.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a minimum
of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream length
shall be used.
   D.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections with rapid
expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
   E.   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
         (b)   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase
Downstream Flooding:
            (1)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            (2)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least 1.5 times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            (3)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            (4)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
            (5)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate through a determination of flood discharges and water surface
elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
            (6)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structure.
         (c)   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights:
            (1)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            (2)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
         (d)   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
            (1)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements.
            (2)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a
permit for a dam or waiver.
   A.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be calculated
using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for tail water
conditions for the flood study specified in section
6-19-6 of this chapter. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any
commonly accepted FEMA approved hydraulic models.
   B.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection (B)3(b) of
this section.
   C.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection (B)3(c) of this
section.
   D.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
   E.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge showing
the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be submitted to
IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this subsection (B).
   F.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be designed
per subsection (B)3(h) of this section.
         (e)   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts,
And Approach Roads:
            (1)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
            (2)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 (floodway
construction in northeastern Illinois) or successor regulations and submitted
to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence before a permit is issued.
         (f)   On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water:
            (1)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot
when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel
banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as
within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within
recorded flood easements.
            (2)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must
be obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            (3)   All dams and impoundment structures as defined in section
6-19-3 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3702 (construction and maintenance of dams) or
successor regulations. If the proposed activity involves a modification of the
channel or floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated
that:
   A.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by providing
flood control, public recreation, or regional stormwater detention;
   B.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning;
   C.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water quality
or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures and a presedimentation basin;
   D.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the upstream
watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as minimize the
input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants. If there is
more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the municipality in which
the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with upstream municipalities
to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
   E.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this section.
         (g)   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures:
            (1)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no farther than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
            (2)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing activities.
         (h)   Excavation In The Floodway:
            (1)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            (2)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
   A.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the
water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length; and
   B.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the
water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
   C.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a minimum
of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream length
shall be used; and
   D.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
         (i)   Channel Modification: If the proposed activity involves a
channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment
of a stream side buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable
if the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and
fish and wildlife habitat;
            (2)   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
   A.   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall match as
closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross section,
slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously modified,
restoration of more natural physical conditions should be incorporated into
channel modification design, where practical.
   B.   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both the
upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
   C.   One sided construction of a channel shall be used when feasible.
Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one side of
the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization effects
of the vegetation.
   D.   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
   E.   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no steeper than
three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Native
vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as concrete,
gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
   F.   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be seeded or
otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of construction.
Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to stabilize
disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative cover.
   G.   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity such as
deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
   H.   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of the
modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
   I.   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all items of
construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to diversion of
water into the new channel.
   J.   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the channel enters
or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless necessitated by a
public flood control project or unless such an increase is justified as part of
a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
   K.   Unless the modification is for a public flood control project, there
shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage outside the floodway
as a result of the modification; and
            (4)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
         (j)   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         (k)   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
            (1)   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days
prior to the initiation of improvements.
            (2)   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be
applied to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization
shall be provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any
portion of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may
not be at final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60)
days.
            (3)   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment traps and basins.
            (4)   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25')
in width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along
existing channels (see subsection (B)3(p) of this section). Construction
vehicle use of channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be
constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or
along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
            (5)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with "Procedures And Standards For Urban
Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" (1988) also known as the
"Green Book" and the "Illinois Urban Manual" (NRCS, 1995).
         (l)   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control
projects, the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if
the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         (m)   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
            (1)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in section
6-19-6 of this chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR
shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base
conditions data to use.
            (2)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
   A.   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
   B.   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water elevations.
            (3)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or
a private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         (n)   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
            (1)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            (2)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            (4)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            (5)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         (o)   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed professional
engineer.
         (p)   Construction Within Twenty Five Feet Of Channel: For all
activities in the floodway involving construction within twenty five feet (25')
of the channel, the following criteria shall be met:
            (1)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within
at least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during
the construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         (q)   Floodway Designation Change May Proceed: After receipt of
conditional approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit
and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change
the floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as built" plans.
      4.   Development Activities In Delegated Communities Requiring State
Review: For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by the village when
the village has been delegated state permitting authority in the floodway:
         (a)   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to subsection (B)3(d) of this section.
         (b)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection (B)3(e) of this section.
         (c)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to subsections (B)3(a), (B)3(b), and (B)3(h) of this section.
         (d)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
section
6-19-3 of this chapter) and all other federal, state, or local units of
government projects, including projects of the municipality or county.
         (e)   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
         (f)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
         (g)   Projects in public bodies of water.
      5.   Other Permits:
         (a)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq.
         (b)   No correspondence from IDNR/OWR shall be required if the project
meets the requirements of regional permit 3.
         (c)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the village.
      6.   Permits For Dams:
         (a)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of
a "dam" as defined in section
6-19-3 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) or any successor regulation shall obtain an IDNR/OWR
permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
         (b)   If the village's code enforcement officer or such other person
or entity designated by the village president finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall immediately notify the IDNR/
OWR Bartlett office.
         (c)   If the village's code enforcement officer or such other person
or entity designated by the village president finds a dam which is believed to
be in unsafe condition, the village's code enforcement officer or such other
person or entity designated by the village president shall immediately notify
the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois emergency
management agency (IEMA).
      7.   Activities That Do Not Require A Licensed Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a licensed
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
         (a)   Regional permit 3 which authorizes, for example, underground and
overhead utilities, storm and sanitary sewer outfalls, sidewalks, patios,
athletic fields, playground equipment and stream bank protection activities.
(Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-9: SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones) where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
   (A)   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or floodplain without
first obtaining a development permit from the village code enforcement officer
or such other person or entity designated by the village president.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village.
      3.   (a) The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
section
6-19-10 of this chapter.
         (b)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose,
and intended use;
            (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include at a minimum:
   A.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the waterway,
boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic or
numerical scale, and north arrow;
   B.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing existing
and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the structure or
work, elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988, adjacent
property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water), floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and a graphical
or numerical scale;
   C.   Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the flow of
floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed conditions
including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view, existing and
proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation,
100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical scales
(horizontal and vertical); and
   D.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas. This
plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and the
temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate
their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
         (c)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection (B) of this
section.
         (d)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      4.   Based on the best available existing data according to federal,
state or other sources, the village code enforcement officer or such other
person or entity designated by the village president shall compare the
elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (a)   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection
6-19-6(D) of this chapter.
         (b)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   The village code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
         (d)   The village code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity. The
village code enforcement officer or such other person or entity designated by
the village president shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   Development Causing Damage, Impairment Prohibited: No development in
the SFHA where a floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public
health, safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic
functions of the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or
aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate
mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
      2.   Standards Within SFHAs: Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway
has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Engineering Requirements: The developer shall have a licensed
professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting plans,
calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering requirements of
subsection
6-19-8(B) of this chapter for the entire floodplain as calculated under the
provisions of subsection
6-19-6(D) of this chapter.
            (1)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR and FEMA for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            (2)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR and FEMA, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of
section
6-19-8 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The "floodway" shall be
defined according to the definition in section
6-19-3 of this chapter.
         (b)   Development Permit: A development permit shall not be issued
unless the applicant first obtains an IDNR/OWR permit or a determination has
been made that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required.
         (c)   Permits For Dams:
            (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a "dam" as defined in section
6-19-3 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam.
            (2)   If the village code enforcement officer or such other person
or entity designated by the village president finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the village code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president shall immediately notify the IDNR/
OWR Bartlett office.
            (3)   If the village code enforcement officer or such other person
or entity designated by the village president finds a dam which is believed to
be in unsafe condition, the village code enforcement officer or such other
person or entity designated by the village president shall immediately notify
the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois emergency
management agency (IEMA).
      3.   Permitted Activities: The following activities may be permitted
without a licensed professional engineer's review or calculation of base flood
elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 2;
         (b)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 3;
         (c)   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 4;
         (d)   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
no. 5;
         (e)   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change in
grade) are covered by this permit;
         (f)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7;
         (g)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8;
         (h)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 9;
         (i)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10;
         (j)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 11;
         (k)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 12;
         (l)   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 13;
         (m)   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 14; and
         (n)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
      4.   Altered Watercourse Maintained: The flood carrying capacity of any
altered or relocated watercourse shall be maintained.
      5.   Compensatory Storage:
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.5 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 2008-21,
11-25-2008)
6-19-10: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
6-19-7,
6-19-8 and
6-19-9 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designated floodways,
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified, the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE) unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed
and anchored storage tank and certified by a professional engineer or
floodproofed building constructed according to the requirements of subsection
(C) of this section.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
      5.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
   (B)   Carrying Capacity And Notification:
      1.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      2.   In addition, the village shall notify municipalities with a border
contiguous to the village of a request for a permit to alter or relocate a
watercourse, in writing, thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit to
alter or relocate the watercourse.
   (C)   Protecting Buildings:
      1.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as an
SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood protection
elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet;
         (b)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption date hereof. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section;
         (c)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption date hereof. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do
not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully
occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage);
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year; and
         (f)   "Repetitive loss" to an existing "building" as defined in
section
6-19-3 of this chapter. This building protection requirement may be met by one
of the following methods.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Lowest Floor: The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at
or above the flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Fill Requirements:
            (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation; and
            (2)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures; and
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure; and
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporate debris or refuse materials; and
            (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      3.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on
each wall, shall be no more than one foot (1') above existing grade, and
consists of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris; and
         (c)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation; and
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (d)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space; and
         (e)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
         (f)   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870 or any successor regulations. In
addition, all manufactured homes shall meet the following elevation
requirements:
            (1)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
         (g)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection (C)3(f) of this
section unless:
            (1)   They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed, ready for highway use, and used only
for recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      4.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
         (b)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
         (c)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection).
      5.   A building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade; and
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade; and
         (d)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point; and
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event; and
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
      6.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
      7.   Toolsheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory structures on
an existing single-family platted lot, may be constructed with the lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building is not used for human habitation; and
         (b)   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of section
6-19-8 of this chapter. In addition, all other requirements of sections
6-19-7,
6-19-8 and
6-19-9 of this chapter must be met; and
         (c)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation; and
         (d)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation; and
         (e)   The building shall be valued at less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in floor size; and
         (f)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses
and cannot be modified later into another use; and
         (g)   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
subsection (C)3(a) of this section; and
         (h)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
         (i)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      8.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in section
6-19-8 of this chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with subsection
6-19-8(B) of this chapter. A nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire,
wind or other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was damaged, in which
case it shall conform to this chapter. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-11: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The village's corporate authorities shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known in all official actions related to land
management, use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with sections
6-19-7,
6-19-8,
6-19-9 and
6-19-10 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
   (B)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
      1.   Where this information is not available from an existing adopted
study, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
6-19-6(D) of this chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition of
"designated floodway" in section
6-19-3 of this chapter.
   (C)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   (D)   The village's corporate authorities shall not approve any planned unit
development (PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits
unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2008-21,
11-25-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
6-19-12: VARIANCES:
   (A)   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
"designated floodway" as defined in section
6-19-3 of this chapter.
      1.   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village's board
of trustees for a variance.
      2.   The village's board of trustees shall review the applicant's request
for a variance and may grant or deny that request based upon the criteria,
requirements and purposes set forth in this chapter. The village's board of
trustees may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the flood protection intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA; and
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance was not
granted; and
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary; and
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance; and
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities, or other public
facilities; and
      6.   The provisions of subsections
6-19-7(B) and
6-19-9(B) of this chapter shall still be met; and
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway; and
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses; and
      10.   All other required state and federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
   (C)   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of section
6-19-10 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage; and
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant will acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or "historic structure" as defined in section
6-19-3 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of subsection (B) of this section, subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-13: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   (D)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord.
2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-14: PENALTY:
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum fine
allowable for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (B)   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or entity
designated by the village president shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      1.   The village's code enforcement officer or such other person or
entity designated by the village president is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the village's board of trustees. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state: a) the grounds
for complaint or reasons for suspension or revocation; and b) the time and
place of the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to present evidence on his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the village's board of trustees shall determine whether the permit
shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
6-19-15: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the national flood insurance program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
   (D)   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
any other provision of this code, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
CHAPTER 20
BOARD UP SERVICES
SECTION:
6-20-1: Requirements And Procedures
6-20-2: Contractor Requirements
6-20-3: Violations And Penalties
6-20-1: REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   (A)   No structure within the village shall be unsecured in a manner which
allows it to be exposed to the elements. If a structure shall become so exposed
and the owner of the structure has not made timely arrangements to secure the
structure and protect it from exposure to the elements, then the fire or police
department is authorized to contact a board up contractor for that purpose. The
owner of the structure shall be solely liable for the costs charged by such
board up contractor for that service. The village shall have no liability for
such contractor's work or charges.
   (B)   A board up contractor shall not arrive or present itself at any
structure within the village unless it has been contacted by the owner of that
structure or has received a request to board up that structure from the fire or
police department.
   (C)   A board up contractor which provides the owner of a structure with
board up services shall not offer any other services to that owner, including,
without limitation, repair, remediation or other general contracting work.
   (D)   Any board up contractor's failure to comply with the provisions of
subsection (B) or (C) of this section shall, in addition to all other
applicable fines, penalties and consequences, be grounds for suspension or
revocation of the contractor's license. (Ord. 2009-14, 9-8-2009)
6-20-2: CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS:
Any board up contractor which seeks to do business within the village must be
licensed as a contractor by the village pursuant to chapter 9 of this title. In
addition to the requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title, the
contractor must also provide the village with the following:
   (A)   A certificate of comprehensive commercial general liability insurance
with coverage of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each
occurrence, which names the village as an additional insured and which provides
that the insurance policy evidenced by the certificate shall not be terminated
until thirty (30) days after the village has received written notice of the
intent to terminate that policy;
   (B)   A bond in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) from a
surety reasonably acceptable to the village, with that bond indemnifying,
defending and holding the village harmless from any loss, damage, claim or
liability arising out of or resulting from the conduct or operation of the
contractor's business and with that bond providing that it shall not be
terminated until thirty (30) days after the village has received written notice
of the intent to terminate that bond.
   (C)   A listing of all current charges for board up services, with those
charges remaining in effect for the remainder of the village's fiscal year.
(Ord. 2009-14, 9-8-2009)
6-20-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
In addition to any other applicable penalties, fines or consequences, any
person who or entity which violates any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A
separate violation will be deemed to have occurred on each day that a person or
entity shall be found to be in violation of a provision of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-14, 9-8-2009)
TITLE VII
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
COMMERCIAL LICENSE CODE
General Provisions
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose And Jurisdiction
7-1-2: Licenses Required
7-1-3: Power To Grant Or Revoke
7-1-4: Inspections
7-1-4A: Reports Of Building Commissioner And Electrical Inspector
7-1-5: Application And Investigation
7-1-6: Appeal And Hearing From Denial, Revocation Or Suspension
7-1-7: Terms Of License
7-1-8: Payment Of Fees
7-1-9: Records Required; Display Of Licenses
7-1-10: License Limited To One Location
7-1-11: Change Of Location
7-1-11A: Change Of License Status
7-1-12: Transfer Of License Prohibited
7-1-13: Persons Conducting More Than One Occupation
7-1-14: Inspection
7-1-15: License Fee Schedule
7-1-16: Penalty
7-1-17: Revocation, Suspension
7-1-18: Short Title
7-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
Because each commercial establishment located in the Village and the conduct of
certain trades and occupations are a basic part of and affect the physical and
economic well-being of the Village, necessitating special services from the
Village in the form of fire, health and police inspections and services, such
commercial establishments, trades and occupations shall in all respects be in
full compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter. This chapter is
designed to provide for the means whereby the Village may render the necessary
inspections and services to commercial establishments, commercial areas, trades
and occupations in order to promote, protect and safeguard the public safety,
health and welfare of the citizens of the Village and to enable the effecting
of an accurate record of commercial establishments, trades and occupations
located and carrying on commercial activities or commerce within the Village.
(Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of a commercial establishment, business and/or commercial enterprise
or activities as provided in this title, and the chapters thereof, of this
Code, or as otherwise provided herein without having first obtained a license
therefor. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-3: POWER TO GRANT OR REVOKE:
In all cases where licenses are required to be procured, such license shall be
granted by the Village President, and attested by the Village Clerk. The
Village President shall also have the power to revoke or suspend any license,
so granted, for any violation of any law relating to the license or to the
business or occupation licensed, including but not limited to the manner in
which such business is conducted or for any violations of the terms or
conditions upon which the license was granted.
No license for the operation of a commercial establishment in the Village shall
be issued if one or more of the following conditions are determined by the
Village President, or such other officer as may be designated by the Village
President, to exist:
   (A)   The building or premises of the commercial establishment does not
comply with the provisions and terms of the Building Code, zoning ordinance,
fire regulations, health regulations 1  or any ordinances and regulations of
the Village.
   (B)   The building or premises of the commercial establishment are in a
condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health or welfare.
   (C)   The owner of the commercial establishment or the legal entity
comprising the commercial establishment is indebted to the Village. (Ord., 3-
23-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles VI, XI, IX and IV respectively of this Code.
7-1-4: INSPECTIONS:
Prior to the original issuance of a license as provided in section
7-1-5 of this chapter, the building and/or premises for the proposed commercial
operation shall be inspected by the health inspector and Fire Department fire
protection officer.
Within seven (7) days after said inspections, the health inspector and Fire
Department fire protection officer shall each file separate reports with the
Village President, and a duplicate copy with the Village Clerk, reciting the
date of inspection and findings as to the compliance, or lack of compliance
with the Village health regulations and fire regulations, respectively. The
inspections referred to herein shall be made within seven (7) days after a copy
of the application for license is delivered to the aforesaid inspectors by the
Village Clerk, and the Village Clerk is directed to deliver said copy to each
inspector within seven (7) days from the date of filing by the applicant.
After issuance of a commercial license, the health inspector and Fire
Department protection officer shall make regular inspections, no less than once
each calendar year, of the building and/or premises operated for commercial
uses as to the compliance with Village health and fire regulations,
respectively; and within seven (7) days after said inspections, each inspector
shall file separate reports with the Village President, and a duplicate copy
with the Village Clerk, reciting the results of said inspections.
Should any business or entity require a re-inspection, subsequent re-
inspection, or any other additional inspection, to assure compliance with
Village Code and other regulations as determined by the Village, such entity or
business shall pay a fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each such re-
inspection, in addition to those licensing fees established in Section
7-46-4 herein. (Ord., 3-23-1976; amd. Ord. 2023-35, 12-12-2023)
7-1-4A: REPORTS OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
In addition to the inspections stated in section
7-1-4 of this chapter by the health inspector and Fire Department fire
protection officer, the Building Commissioner and electrical inspector shall
furnish the Village President, for his review and information, any reports,
inspections, documents, and photographs, if any, obtained or received by the
Building Commissioner and electrical inspector pertaining to any pending
application for occupancy certificate, pursuant to section
11-13-1 of this Code for the purpose of assuring compliance by the applicant
for a commercial license with the Building Code 1 , zoning ordinance 2 , and
other applicable ordinances.
The reports, inspections, documents, and photographs referred to herein, if
any, shall be delivered to the Village President within seven (7) days after a
copy of the application for license is delivered to the Building Commissioner
and electrical inspector by the Village Clerk, and the Village Clerk is
directed to deliver said copy to the Building Commissioner and electrical
inspector within seven (7) days from the date of filing by the applicant.
After issuance of a commercial license, the Building Commissioner and
electrical inspector shall make regular inspections, no less than once each
calendar year, of the building and/or premises operated for commercial uses as
to compliance with Village Building Code and regulations; and within seven (7)
days after said inspections, the Building Commissioner and electrical inspector
shall file separate reports with the Village Clerk, reciting the results of
said inspections. (Ord. 95-07, 9-13-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title VI of this Code.
2 2. See title XI of this Code.
7-1-5: APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION:
All licenses procured by this chapter, are granted by the Village President and
shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon the Village President's direction.
The Village Clerk shall make available blank applications for a new business to
submit their information for review. Established businesses shall receive a
type written application, or if requested a blank application, for their review
and approval. Applications shall be mailed in ample time before the expiration
of their current license. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
assessed for each new application received for processing.
If the Village President requires an investigation for a new business, the
Village Clerk shall proceed to transmit the application to the proper
department for review. If the report recommends the granting of the license,
the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant. Upon compliance of the
inspections, payment of the license fee, receipt of a Certificate of Liability,
lease agreement and the surety bond if applicable, the Village President shall
authorize the Village Clerk to issue a license bearing the Seal of the Village
for a period for which payment is made. Businesses that are home based may not
be required to obtain a Certificate of Liability. Home businesses that do not
employ others or receive any foot traffic shall be waived. (Ord. 2018-29, 10-
23-2018)
7-1-6: APPEAL AND HEARING FROM DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   (A)   In the event the Village President refuses or denies an application
for license, he shall state his reasons for said refusal or denial in writing
and file a copy of same with the Village Clerk within fourteen (14) days after
the filing of said application.
In the event a license is revoked or suspended by the Village President, the
Village President shall file a written statement of said revocation or
suspension with the Village Clerk within forty eight (48) hours after the order
of revocation or suspension.
   (B)   In the event an application for a license is refused or denied by the
Village President, or a license is revoked or suspended by the Village
President, the applicant or licensee therefor, may appeal to the Board of
Trustees and shall be entitled to a hearing upon the said refusal, denial,
suspension or revocation.
Said appeal shall be filed by the applicant, or licensee, with the Village
Clerk within twenty one (21) days after the filing with the Village Clerk by
the Village President aforesaid of his refusal, denial, suspension or
revocation.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall conduct a hearing upon said appeal by the
applicant, or licensee, within fourteen (14) days after such appeal shall have
been filed with the Village Clerk. Notice of said hearing shall be given to the
applicant, or licensee, no less than two (2) days prior to the date of hearing.
At the time of the hearing aforesaid, the Board of Trustees shall consider the
order of refusal, denial, suspension or revocation, issued by the Village
President, and any evidence submitted by him, or in his behalf, pertaining to
same, and any evidence produced by the applicant, or licensee, upon the issue
of the qualification, or lack thereof, of the applicant or licensee, to a
license as provided by the "Commercial License Code of the Village of Posen"
and all other applicable provisions of the ordinances of the Village of Posen.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of any hearing on appeal aforesaid, the
Board of Trustees may adopt rules of procedure pertaining to the conduct of
such hearing.
   (E)   Within seven (7) days after the completion of said hearing the Board
of Trustees shall issue its decision determining whether the license
constituting the subject matter of the appeal shall be issued or reinstated.
Said decision shall be by majority vote of the Board of Trustees. In the event
of a tie vote, the order of the Village President shall be sustained.
In the event the decision of the Board of Trustees is for issuance or
reinstatement of the license, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Village
Clerk in writing to issue or reinstate same, and the Village Clerk, immediately
upon receipt of said written decision and direction, shall issue or reinstate
said license. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-7: TERMS OF LICENSE:
Subject to the terms and provisions of this ordinance, the Village Clerk, shall
cause to be issued a license to permit the operation of the commercial
establishment or conduct of specified trade or occupation in the Village of
Posen for a period of one license year which shall begin on May first of the
year for which such license is issued and shall terminate on April thirty of
the next year. No license shall be issued at the yearly rate of license fees
except for the full license year unless otherwise specifically provided for
herein; provided, however, that where such annual license is issued on or after
the first day of November, the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the
yearly license fee for the unexpired term of the license year. (Ord., 3-23-
1976)
7-1-8: PAYMENT OF FEES:
The required fee for each license issued shall be collected in full at the time
of the issuance and delivery thereof. In no event shall any rebate or refund be
made of any license fee, or part thereof, by reason of the death of the
licensee or by any reason of nonuse of the license or discontinuance of the
operation of the commercial establishment, trade or occupation. Unless
expressly provided to the contrary, all license fees shall become a part of the
General Corporate Fund. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-9: RECORDS REQUIRED; DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
The Village Clerk, or such other officer as may be designated by the Village
President, shall cause to be maintained a record of all commercial
establishments and commercial licenses as from time to time may be deemed
necessary for purpose of classifying, inspecting, serving and licensing
commercial establishments and other activities as herein enumerated in the
Village of Posen. Subject to the terms and provisions of this ordinance, upon
payment in full of the required license fee to the Village of Posen, the
Village of Posen shall issue a license tag or sticker or certificate or similar
evidence of license which shall be displayed by the owner of the commercial
establishment in a conspicuous place. Such evidence of license shall bear the
signature of the Village President and Village Clerk. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-10: LICENSE LIMITED TO ONE LOCATION:
No license for the operation of a commercial establishment in the Village of
Posen shall be construed by any person to permit the operation of a commercial
establishment in more than one location. For the purposes of this ordinance,
one location shall be construed to mean that all buildings containing the
principal or accessory uses are connected or on the same lot or parcel, or are
operated and managed by the same person or owner, and constitute a commercial
establishment with the same classification. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided
ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the Village Clerk, in the absence of
any provision to the contrary; provided that all requirements of this ordinance
are complied with. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-11A: CHANGE OF LICENSE STATUS:
Changing the conditions, details, parameters or scope of a business license
shall be granted however certain stipulations may apply: adjustments to
footage, business name (same owner), location, liquor class, advertising, food,
health inspections or any other change that would negate the original license
issued. A processing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for these changes
shall be assessed. (Ord. 2018-30, 10-23-2018)
7-1-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted under this ordinance shall be assigned or transferred, nor
shall any such license authorize any person to do business or act under it
other than the person named therein. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-13: PERSONS CONDUCTING MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION:
In the event any person is engaged in more than one activity, listed herein, in
the same establishment, he shall pay a license fee on the main activity
conducted at the establishment; provided, however, that this shall not apply to
license fees for cigars, cigarettes and tobacco but a full license fee shall be
paid on the latter. Under no circumstances shall the sale of liquor be
considered an additional or incidental activity and in all cases where liquor
is served or sold the full liquor license fees as provided for by ordinance
shall be paid.
Under no circumstances shall the sale or dispensing of prepared food be
considered an additional or incidental activity and in all cases where prepared
food is served or sold the full license fee shall be paid.
Under no circumstances shall the operation of a currency exchange be considered
an additional or incidental activity and in all cases where a currency exchange
is operated the full license fee for currency exchanges as provided herein
shall be paid. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-14: INSPECTION:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are reasonably necessary to
secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof,
it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises
to be inspected to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any
officer or employee of the Village of Posen authorized or directed to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the Village of Posen whose
business or occupation is governed by the provision to give any authorized
officer or employee of the Village of Posen requesting the same sufficient
reasonable samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon
request.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village President
may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business or
occupation in the Village of Posen who refuses to permit any such officer or
employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample of the
said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection, provided that no license
shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee
or person in charge of this premises, in the name of the Village of Posen,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired and the time that is sought
to make the inspection or to obtain the sample. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-15: LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
The license fees shall be as designated in chapters 2 through 46 as applicable,
of this title, and as may be amended hereafter. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-17: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION:
Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked or suspended by the
Village President at any time during the life of such license or permit, for
any violation by the licensee or permittee of the provisions of this Code
relating to the license or permit, or to the premises occupied, as provided in
section
7-1-3 of this chapter. Such revocation or suspension may be in addition to any
fine imposed. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
7-1-18: SHORT TITLE:
This ordinance shall be known as the COMMERCIAL LICENSE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
POSEN. (Ord., 3-23-1976)
CHAPTER 2
BOWLING LANES
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: License Required
7-3-3: Applications
7-3-4: Restriction On Licenses
7-3-5: Classification; Fees
7-3-6: Term; Prorating Fee
7-3-7: Disposition Of Fees
7-3-8: Number Of Licenses
7-3-9: Record Of Licenses
7-3-10: Transfer Of License
7-3-11: Change Of Location
7-3-12: Peddling
7-3-13: Sanitary And Special Conditions
7-3-14: Employees
7-3-15: Location Requirements
7-3-16: Location Restrictions
7-3-17: Employment Of Minors; Sales
7-3-18: Drunkenness; Gambling
7-3-19: Loud Noises; Disturbances; Lewd Dancing Prohibited; And Nude Or Obscene
Performances
7-3-20: Closing Hours
7-3-21: Election Days (Rep. by Ord. 79-5, 3-13-1979)
7-3-22: View From The Public Way
7-3-23: Revocation; Regulations
7-3-24: Revocation Procedure
7-3-25: Special Event Liquor License
7-3-26: Appeal Of Liquor Commissioner Findings Limited To The Record
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   Hotel: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place were food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential in which twenty five
(25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such structure or structures being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity.
   Club: A corporation organized under laws of this State not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object, other than the sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or by using a building
or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodations of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the President at the time
of its application for a license under the provisions of this Chapter, two (2)
copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files
within ten (10) days of an election of any additional member his name and
address, and provided further that its affairs and management are conducted by
a Board of Directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent, or employee
of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary
or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by
members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its Board of Directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club.
7-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, any alcoholic liquor
without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in violation of the terms
of such license.
7-3-3: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the President in writing,
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain the following information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and director; and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name and
address of such person.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application.
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in the provisions of this Code or laws of this State.
   (J)   A statement whether a previous license by any state or subdivision
thereof, or by the Federal Government, has been revoked, and the reasons
thereof.
   (K)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State or of the United States or any provisions of this Code in the conduct of
his place of business.
7-3-4: RESTRICTION ON LICENSES:
No such license shall be issued to, or retained by:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
State.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill-fame.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (F)   A person whose license issued under the provisions of this chapter has
been revoked for cause.
   (G)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application. (1965 Code)
   (H)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partnership interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the
village. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-8-2004)
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship or residence within the
political subdivision.
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the passage of this chapter, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   (M)   Any law enforcing public official, or president of the board of
trustees, any member of the board, or any president or member of a county
board; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or
indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   (N)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license.
(1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-14, 5-26-2020)
7-3-5: CLASSIFICATION; FEES:
Such licenses shall be and are hereby, divided into the following classes:
   (A)   Class A licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well
as other retail sales of such liquor during the hours provided in section
7-3-20 of this chapter. The annual fee for class A licenses shall be seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   (B)   Class B licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, but not for consumption on the premises where sold, during the hours
provided in section
7-3-20 of this chapter. The annual fee for such license shall be seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00).
   (C)   Class C licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, specifically beer and wine only, for consumption on the premises as
well as other retail sales of such liquor during the hours provided in section
7-3-20 of this chapter, the annual fee for such license shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   (D)   Class D licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises at a place of business where the sale of
alcohol is incidental or secondary to the primary activity of such place of
business. Places of business within this classification include, but are not
limited to, combination gas station/convenience store locations, automobile/
service stations where video gaming is permitted, laundromats where video
gaming is permitted, theaters providing live stage performances and other
establishments presenting entertainment for which an admission fee is charged.
The annual fee for a class D license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 2014-02, 1-14-2014; amd. Ord. 2022-25, 10-11-2022)
7-3-6: TERM; PRORATING FEE:
Each such license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. This
fee is not to be prorated, if license is issued during the fiscal year, and no
part thereof is to be refunded if license is revoked by the liquor
commissioner, or if it is not used by the owner for the entire year. (1965
Code)
7-3-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the president at the time application is made,
and shall be forthwith turned over to the treasurer. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant, if the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the general corporate
fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board of
Trustees, by proper action. (1965 Code)
7-3-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
Except as provided in subsection (E) of this section, the number of licenses
issued shall be limited to:
   (A)   Ten (10) Class A licenses.
   (B)   Eight (8) Class B licenses.
   (C)   Three (3) Class C licenses.
   (D)   Eight (8) Class D licenses.
   (E)   The President, with the approval of the Board of Trustees may grant
three (3) additional licenses within Classes A, B, C, and D. (Ord. 2017-13, 9-
12-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-16, 4-25-2023)
7-3-9: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him, and shall furnish the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of
Police with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any new license, or the
revocation of any old license, the President shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(1965 Code)
7-3-10: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators
of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court, may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose, and provided, further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the President from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction. (1965 Code)
7-3-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
upon the premises described in the application and any license application for
a change of location must comply and must be accompanied by the necessary
documents to establish compliance with the requirements of sections
7-3-15 and
7-3-16 of this chapter. (1965 Code)
7-3-12: PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the Village. (1965 Code)
7-3-13: SANITARY AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of this Code
regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for
human consumption. Sufficient sanitary waste receptacles shall be provided by
licensee for all establishment waste, including at least one receptacle at each
entrance to the premises.
   B.   Parking areas and the areas around the establishment shall be
maintained in a clean condition at all times by the licensee and shall be in
good repair free from any slip, trip and fall hazards. In particular, such
areas shall be monitored for cleanliness by licensees on Thursday through
Monday mornings following hours of operation.
   C.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall be
equipped with a burglar alarm system, which shall alert the licensee or
employee of the licensee, who will in turn notify the Village Police Department
in instances of unpermitted entry into the liquor establishments. Alarm systems
operating within the Village shall have an alarm permit issued by the Village
and such system shall be approved by the Chief of Police.
   D.   The licensees shall install and maintain in good working order video
recording and monitoring equipment pursuant to specifications as determined
from time to time by the Chief of Police and shall maintain video recordings
for a period of at least thirty (30) days. Video recordings must be accessible
to the Chief of Police or his/her designee, upon request at any time. Licensees
shall record all persons entering or leaving the building, the parking lot and
area immediately surrounding the establishment, as determined by the Chief of
Police. A written notice of video surveillance shall be conspicuously posted
near the entrances. The Chief of Police will provide report(s) to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner as to unlawful activities related to the
establishment.
   E.   The licensees shall install and maintain in good working order lighting
around the outside of the establishment and parking lots, to provide sufficient
illumination to these areas for the safety of the patrons and residents, as
determined by the Chief of Police.
   F.   Class A liquor licensees shall obtain and utilize electronic card
readers/scanners capable of reading and storing data from state drivers'
licenses, ID cards, or other forms of identification. These shall be approved
by the Chief of Police and shall be utilized for patrons entering the premises
used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
   G.   All licensees shall comply with and enforce the Smoke Free Illinois
Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et. seq., including no smoking within 15 feet of any
entrance (410 ILCS 82/15) and posting "no smoking within 15 feet" signs at
every entrance (410 ILCS 82/10).
   H.   All security personnel employed by a licensee or on behalf of a
licensee shall wear identifying clothing while at work, such as a jacket or
shirt. Such clothing shall make security personnel easily identifiable from the
front or the back, shall include the word "security," and shall be brightly
colored. The Chief of Police or his/her designees shall determine the
sufficiency of security personnel clothing.
   I.   All licensees shall be in compliance with this Section on or before
December 15, 2022. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in non-
renewal, revocation or denial of a business license. (1965 Code; amd. Ord.
2022-23, 9-27-2022)
7-3-14: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor. (1965 Code)
7-3-15: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
within a residential area of the Village unless the owner or owners of two-
thirds (2/3) of the property parcels within three hundred feet (300') of the
building where alcoholic liquor is to be sold provided that this requirement
shall not apply to places of business lawfully operating in such residential
areas prior to the passage of this provision. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-8-2004)
7-3-16: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, undertaking
establishment or mortuary, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their wives or children; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-8-2004)
7-3-17: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS; SALES:
No retail liquor dealer shall employ any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years of age as a servant or clerk in his place of business, nor shall in
any manner, sell, give or deliver any intoxicating liquors or beverages
whatever to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age; or allow
any insane, distracted or intoxicated person, or person in the habit of getting
intoxicated, to be or remain or loiter in or about his place of business. It
shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age
to misrepresent his/her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Ord. 95-06, 9-13-1995)
7-3-18: DRUNKENNESS; GAMBLING:
No retail liquor dealer shall by himself, servant or clerk allow drunkenness or
permit any person to drink to excess, or suffer or permit any species of
gambling, in his premises, or in any part thereof or in any place adjacent
thereto under his control. (1965 Code)
7-3-19: LOUD NOISES; DISTURBANCES; LEWD DANCING PROHIBITED; AND NUDE OR OBSCENE
PERFORMANCES:
   (A)   No retailer of liquor licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall permit any loud or boisterous talking or obscene or profane language,
quarreling, singing, fighting or other disturbances of persons passing along
any street or public square in the vicinity thereof, or to the disturbance of
the peace and quiet of persons doing business or residing in the neighborhood
thereof.
   (B)   No retailer of liquor licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall permit live musicians, and/or disc jockeys past the hour of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
Sunday through Thursday.
   (C)   No retailer of liquor licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall permit any sponsored outdoor activities to begin prior to ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and must terminate any such outdoor activities by ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M.
   (D)   No retailer of liquor licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall permit upon the licensed premises:
      1.   Any person to appear in such manner or attire as to expose to public
view any portion of his or her pubic area, buttocks, anus, perineum, vulva or
genitals or any simulation thereof;
      2.   Any female to appear in such manner or attire as to expose to public
view any portion of her breast below the top of the areola or any simulation
thereof; or
      3.   The actual or simulated public performance of acts of sexual
intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or
any sexual act which is prohibited by law.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person, or any premises licensed for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor, to knowingly provide any service or performance to
patrons in such a manner as to expose to public view:
      1.   Any portion of his or her pubic area, buttocks, anus, perineum,
vulva or genitals or any simulation thereof;
      2.   Any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or any
simulation thereof. (Ord. 92-04, 4-14-1992)
7-3-20: CLOSING HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any Class A liquor licensee to sell or offer for sale,
or serve, or permit the consumption at retail of any alcoholic liquor in the
village, between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on any day.
It shall be unlawful for any Class A liquor licensee to keep open for business
or to admit the public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold
at retail during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited.
(Ord. 89-15, 8-8-1989, eff. retroactive to 8-1-1989; amd. Ord. 2022-25, 10-11-
2022; Ord. 2023-33, 11-28-2023; Ord. 2024-19, 11-12-2024)
7-3-21: ELECTION DAYS:
(Rep. by Ord. 79-5, 3-13-1979)
7-3-22: VIEW FROM THE PUBLIC WAY:
A clear view into the premises upon which alcoholic liquor for consumption upon
the premises is licensed other than a restaurant, hotel, or club, shall be
available from the public way. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption
on the premises shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural
light or artificial light so all parts of the interior of the premises shall be
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, such license
shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided in this chapter. The
President may require plans, drawings or photographs showing the clearance of
the views as required above. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-8-2004)
7-3-23: REVOCATION; REGULATIONS:
The President may revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any violation
of any provision of this chapter or for any violation of any State law
pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. All licensees and distributors of
alcoholic liquor are subject to such regulations as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may impose. (1965 Code)
7-3-24: REVOCATION PROCEDURE:
The revocation or suspension by the President of any retail liquor dealer's
license shall be in conformity with the procedure relating to same under the
laws of the State. (1965 Code)
7-3-25: SPECIAL EVENT LIQUOR LICENSE:
The Village President or Liquor Commissioner shall have the authority to issue
a special event liquor license. A special event liquor license may be issued by
the Village President or Liquor Commissioner for a period not to exceed ten
(10) days. Such license may be issued only after the Village President has
designated an event as a special event. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter, the fee for a special event liquor license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for residents and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for non-residents.
(Ord. 2018-12, 7-24-2018)
7-3-26: APPEAL OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER FINDINGS LIMITED TO THE RECORD:
All appeals to the State Liquor Control Commission by a Village liquor licensee
of a decision, order or action by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or
designee having the effect of fining a licensee, suspending or revoking the
Village liquor license shall be limited to review of the official record of the
formal proceedings before the Commissioner. (Ord. 95-05, 9-13-1995; amd. Ord.
96-07, 3-26-1996)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Application of Provisions
7-4-2: Licenses
7-4-3: Street Shows
7-4-4: Table Games
7-4-5: Slot Machines
7-4-6: Coin Operated Phonograph
7-4-7: Creating a Disturbance
7-4-8: Inspections
7-4-9: Indecent Shows
7-4-10: Exhibition of Criminals
7-4-11: Riots
7-4-12: Smoking
7-4-13: Signs
7-4-14: Exit Lights
7-4-15: Restrictions
7-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter, except as to licenses and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the
Municipality, whether specifically under other provisions of this Code or not.
7-4-2: LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the
public and for admission to which a fee is charged without having first secured
a license therefor; provided, that the provisions of this Section shall not be
held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed by any other
provisions of this Code, or by another law of the Village. Applications for
such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and shall comply with the general
provisions of this Code relating to such applications. For such licenses the
fees shall be paid as designated in Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-4-3: STREET SHOWS:
No permit shall be granted for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place that
the only main accommodation for the public or audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the Village Board.
7-4-4: TABLE GAMES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any table games, or
amusement devices operated with a slug or coin or for the use of which a fee is
charged, without first obtaining a license therefor. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
As used in this Section the term "table game" shall mean and include any
device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for the operation of a game,
pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble, sphere, or of objects or
figures, or by controlling the movements of the same or setting them in motion
by mechanical means.
7-4-5: SLOT MACHINES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any slot machine,
operated with a slug or coin, for the use or operation of which a fee is
charged, without having first obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for
such licenses shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
As used in this Section the term "slot machine" shall mean and include any
device not a gambling device, operated by means of slugs or coins, which shows
pictures, numbers, or symbols, singly or in combinations, as a result of
operations.
7-4-6: COIN OPERATED PHONOGRAPH:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any phonograph
operated with a slug or coin, without first obtaining a license therefor. The
annual fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
7-4-7: CREATING A DISTURBANCE:
The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly and quiet at
all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such amusement,
show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
7-4-8: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief to see that
every exhibition, amusement theatrical or other public show or amusement is
inspected by a member of the Police and Fire Departments, and to insure
conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements.
7-4-9: INDECENT SHOWS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to present, exhibit, conduct or take part
in any indecent show, theatrical, play, motion picture exhibition or other form
of public amusement or show.
7-4-10: EXHIBITION OF CRIMINALS:
It shall be unlawful to exhibit any criminal or the body of any criminal or any
person who shall have become notorious because of the commission of a crime, in
any theatrical, exhibit, carnival or other public place.
7-4-11: RIOTS:
It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind which
tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance.
7-4-12: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe on or
beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an assembly
hall with seating accommodations in which theatricals, shows, amusements,
lectures or other entertainments are offered, operated, presented or exhibited.
7-4-13: SIGNS:
It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises, or of the occupant in
charge, to provide and place printed signs on which the words "No Smoking"
shall appear in letters at least four inches (4") high, in conspicuous places,
at least two (2) such signs being upon the stage or in the wings thereof and
one in each dressing room.
7-4-14: EXIT LIGHTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and
other entertainment is offered, operated or presented, to provide and place a
sign, on which the word "Exit" shall appear in letters at least six inches (6")
high, over every door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress
therefrom, and a light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over
such sign, which light shall be kept burning during the entire period that the
hall is open to the public and until the audience has left the hall.
7-4-15: RESTRICTIONS:
No amusement shall be produced, offered or presented in any building not now
devoted to said purpose within two hundred feet (200') of any church, hospital,
or building used exclusively for educational purposes, said distance to be
measured between the nearest point on the building within which it is proposed
to produce, offer or present such amusement and the nearest point in such
church, hospital or building used exclusively for educational purposes.
CHAPTER 5
PET SHOPS, KENNELS
SECTION:
7-5-1: License Required
7-5-2: Application
7-5-3: License Fee
7-5-4: Definitions
7-5-5: Sanitation
7-5-6: Inspections
7-5-7: Zoning Restrictions
7-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a pet shop or a kennel or to engage in the
business of buying, selling, or dealing in birds, dogs, or other small animals
as household pets or used for domestic purposes in the Village of Posen without
first securing a license therefor; and a separate license shall be required for
each operation of a pet shop, or kennel, or dealer in animals at the same
location.
7-5-2: APPLICATION:
An application for a pet shop, kennel or animal dealer's license shall be made
in conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating to
applications for licenses.
7-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license for pet shop, kennel or animal dealer shall be as
designated in Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
The terms "kennels" and "pet shops" shall be construed to include any
establishment for the raising, training, boarding or selling of dogs, cats,
birds, mice, rats, or other small animals for hire or profit, or where more
than three (3) dogs or cats are harbored or kept.
7-5-5: SANITATION:
Every place used as a kennel or pet shop shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to remain thereon
for more than twenty four (24) hours. All animals shall be humanely treated;
and any animal having any disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
7-5-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed to engage in the business of a
pet shop, a kennel or dealing in birds, dogs, or other small animals used as
household pets or for domestic purposes to comply with the provisions of the
Posen Village Code regulating health and sanitation applicable thereto.
7-5-7: ZONING, RESTRICTIONS:
As restricted by the Village of Posen Zoning Ordinance, Title XI, Posen Village
Code, no pet shop nor kennel shall be operated nor maintained in any single
family ("A" and/or "B") Zoning District, Two-Family ("C") Zoning District, or
Apartment ("D") Zoning District as defined and stated in the applicable
sections of said Zoning Ordinance and relevant provisions of the Posen Village
Code. As further restricted by the Posen Zoning Ordinance, Title XI, Posen
Village Code, the operation of a pet shop, kennel, or dealer in animals shall
be permitted only with the "E" and "F" Business Zoning Districts. (Ord. dated
3-23-76)
CHAPTER 6
AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
7-6-1: License Required
7-6-2: Fee
7-6-3: Application
7-6-4: Investigations
7-6-5: Auction in Streets
7-6-6: Exemptions
7-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an auction in the Village or to
do business as an Auctioneer without having first obtained a license therefor.
7-6-2: FEE:
The fee payable in advance for Auctioneers shall be as designated in Chapter 46
of this Title.
7-6-3: APPLICATION:
Application for such license shall be made in writing to the Clerk and shall
state thereon the place of business, if any, intended to be occupied; and the
names of any employees, not to exceed two (2), who are to be authorized to
conduct auctions under the authority of the license.
7-6-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
The Chief of Police shall investigate the character of every applicant for an
Auctioneer's license and no such license shall issue to any person who is not
of good character.
7-6-5: AUCTION IN STREETS:
No person shall sell or attempt to sell or offer for sale at public auction,
any goods, chattels, or personal or real property of any kind upon the public
streets or sidewalks of the Village.
7-6-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to any public auction or sale made or
conducted by a public officer by virtue of any authority contained in a
mortgage or trust deed.
CHAPTER 7
AUTOMATIC FOOD VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: License Required
7-7-3: Application
7-7-4: License Fee
7-7-5: Additional Machines
7-7-6: Change Of Location
7-7-7: Prohibited Location
7-7-8: Special Regulations
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter they shall have
the meaning herein ascribed to them:
AUTOMATIC FOOD VENDING MACHINES: Any mechanical container or device, used for
the sale of any article of food, the operation of which is governed or
controlled by the deposit of a coin or token.
FOOD: Any cooked or uncooked article of food, drink, condiment, or confection
used for, or intended to be used for, human consumption. (1965 Code)
7-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or install any automatic food
vending machine without first having obtained a license so to do. (1965 Code)
7-7-3: APPLICATION:
An application for such license shall be made in conformity with the provisions
of this Code relating to applications for licenses. (1965 Code)
7-7-4: LICENSE FEE:
Every owner of an automatic food vending machine installed or maintained within
the Village shall pay an annual license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 96-01, 1-23-1996)
7-7-5: ADDITIONAL MACHINES:
Upon the filing of a supplemental application and the payment of the prescribed
fees, a licensee shall be entitled to install additional machines at the
location designated in such supplemental applications. (1965 Code)
7-7-6: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Change of location of any licensed vending machine during any license period
may be authorized by the Clerk upon application therefor. (1965 Code)
7-7-7: PROHIBITED LOCATION:
No automatic food vending machine shall be installed or kept for use in any
toilet or washroom. (1965 Code)
7-7-8: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
All articles of food purveyed by means of automatic food vending machines shall
be clean, wholesome, free from taint, decay or infection, and shall contain no
poisonous, deleterious or injurious ingredients in kind and quantities so as to
render such articles injurious or detrimental to health.
The Health Officer shall make periodic inspections of all automatic food
vending machines and articles of food purveyed therefrom for the purpose of
determining the purity and wholesomeness of the products vended. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 8
USED CAR DEALERS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definition
7-8-2: License Required
7-8-3: License Fee
7-8-4: Records
7-8-5: Inspections
7-8-6: Exceptions
7-8-1: DEFINITION:
Any person, firm or corporation selling, exchanging or otherwise disposing of
used or secondhand motor vehicles in the Village where said used or secondhand
motor vehicles have not been acquired by said person, firm or corporation in a
trade-in transaction arising from and out of the sale or disposition at retail
of new motor vehicles in the Village obtained or acquired under dealers'
franchises with manufacturers, shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of
dealing in secondhand motor vehicles.
7-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of dealing in
secondhand motor vehicles in the Village as defined herein without first
obtaining a license for the fiscal year, in the manner herein provided, which
license for purposes of identification shall be known and described as a "used-
car dealers' license".
7-8-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for a "used-car dealer" shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
per each location.
7-8-4: RECORDS:
Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of dealing in
secondhand motor vehicles or his manager for him shall keep a record of all
motor vehicles offered for sale, exchange or disposal to the public, which
record shall show the make of said motor vehicle, the year of its manufacture,
its serial number and the engine number, which record shall always be kept
available for the Chief of Police or any patrolman or police officer within the
Village and open to their inspection at any time. It shall be the further duty
of every such person, firm or corporation dealing in secondhand motor vehicles
to immediately report to the Chief of Police the presence in his place of
business of any motor vehicle on which the serial or engine number has been
defaced or altered.
7-8-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make inspections from time to
time for the purpose of seeing that the records required herein are being kept.
7-8-6: EXCEPTIONS:
Any individual making an isolated sale of his own motor vehicle shall not be
deemed to be engaged in the business of dealing in secondhand motor vehicles.
(2-3-70)
CHAPTER 8A
NEW CAR DEALERS
SECTION:
7-8A-1: Definition
7-8A-2: License Required
7-8A-3: License Fee
7-8A-4: Records
7-8A-5: Inspections
7-8A-1: DEFINITION:
Any person, firm or corporation selling, exchanging, or otherwise disposing of
new motor vehicles in the Village acquired under dealers' franchises with
manufacturers, or disposing of used or secondhand motor vehicles acquired by
said person, firm or corporation, in a trade-in transaction arising from and
out of the sale or disposition at retail of new motor vehicles in the Village,
shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of dealing in new motor vehicles.
7-8A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of dealing in new
motor vehicles in the Village as defined herein without first obtaining a
license for the fiscal year, in the manner herein provided, which license for
purposes of identification shall be known and described as a "new car dealers'
license".
7-8A-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for a "new car dealer" shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
7-8A-4: RECORDS:
Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of dealing in new motor
vehicles or his manager for him shall keep a record of all motor vehicles
offered for sale, exchange or disposal to the public, which record shall show
the make of said motor vehicle, the year of its manufacture, its serial number
and the engine number which record shall always be kept available for the Chief
of Police or any patrolman or police officer within the Village and open to
their inspection at any time. It shall be the further duty of every such
person, firm or corporation dealing in new motor vehicles to immediately report
to the Chief of Police the presence in his place of business of any motor
vehicle on which the serial or engine number has been defaced or altered.
7-8A-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make inspections from time to
time for the purpose of seeing that the records required herein are being kept.
(2-3-70)
CHAPTER 9
BAKERIES
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 10
BARBER SHOPS
SECTION:
7-10-1: License Required
7-10-2: Application
7-10-3: License Fee
7-10-4: Sanitation
7-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a barber shop or be in the business of
cutting hair in the Village without first having obtained a license so to do as
is herein required.
7-10-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to conduct a barber shop shall make application in writing
to the Clerk, stating in such application the name of the applicant, the place
where said barber shop is to be conducted and such other information as may be
pertinent.
7-10-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to be paid by each person to whom a license shall be
issued hereunder shall be as designated in Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-10-4: SANITATION:
The premises used for a barber shop or cutting hair shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition and all persons engaged in the operation of such barber
shop must keep themselves clean both as to person and clothing. Utensils and
tools must be sterilized before being used on a patron. It shall be unlawful to
keep as a barber or other employee in any such shop, any person afflicted with
a contagious disease of any kind. The Health Officer shall make or cause to be
made such inspections as may be necessary to insure compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 11
BILL POSTING AND SIGN PAINTING
SECTION:
7-11-1: Definition
7-11-2: Application
7-11-3: License Fee
7-11-4: Obscene; Immoral Pictures
7-11-5: Suspension; Revocation; Licenses
7-11-1: DEFINITION:
"Bill Posters" and "Sign Painters", within the meaning of this Chapter, are
hereby defined as all persons engaged in the business or occupation of posting
by tacking, pasting, painting, demonstrating, or otherwise distributing upon
the public ways any advertising matter, bills, posters, pictures, or any other
matter or device whatever which advertises the business of any person in any
business or industrial pursuit, or any operas, theaters, shows, circuses, or
other exhibitions, excepting those intended for charitable purposes; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall be considered to apply to the
painting of a store or office sign by sign painters, or to posting of legal
notices by public officers or attorneys in the manner and in the places
prescribed by law, or to persons who are in the business of distributing
circulars, handbills, or business cards by placing them inside of the doors of
dwellings or buildings within the Village Limits.
7-11-2: APPLICATION:
No person shall engage in the business or occupation of bill posting or sign
painting in the Village without first having obtained a license therefor.
7-11-3: LICENSE FEE:
For every license issued under the provisions of this Chapter, the annual
license fee shall be as designated in Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-11-4: OBSCENE; IMMORAL PICTURES:
No person carrying on the business of bill posting or sign painting shall post
or cause to be posted any advertisement containing pictures or illustrations of
an obscene or immoral character.
7-11-5: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; LICENSES:
The President shall have the right, upon the recommendation of the Building
Commissioner that the premises are unsuitable for the operation of such
business, or if the licensee shall violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any other provision of this Code relating to such business, to
suspend the said license for a period of sixty (60) days or to revoke the same.
CHAPTER 12
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
7-12-1: License Required
7-12-2: Fees
7-12-3: Children Restricted
7-12-4: Hours
7-12-5: Unobstructed View
7-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool, bagatelle or
pigeon hole table, open to the public, without having first obtained a license
therefor as is herein provided. All applications for such a license shall be
made in writing to the Clerk and shall state thereon the intended location of
the place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
7-12-2: FEES:
The annual license fee for any such license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title. (1965 Code)
7-12-3: CHILDREN RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person who has not reached the age of eighteen (18)
years, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, to play billiards or to be
permitted to remain in a billiard room for any purpose, or to play any coin-
operated pool table; and it is unlawful for any person to represent himself to
have reached the age of eighteen (18) years in order to obtain admission to
such billiard room or to be permitted to remain therein, or to play any coin-
operated pool table, when such person is in fact under eighteen (18) years of
age.
7-12-4: HOURS:
No person shall operate any billiard or poolroom between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) Midnight and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or harbor or permit any
person to a or remain in any such room between such hours. This Section,
however, shall not be construed to prevent regular employees from performing
necessary work within the premises during such prohibited hours of operation.
7-12-5: UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW:
No person conducting or operating a billiard or pool room shall allow or permit
any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions to be placed
between the front windows and back or rear wall of such room, but an
unobstructed view of the entire interior must be maintained at all times. This
provision, however, shall not be construed to preclude the maintenance of
washrooms or toilet rooms, or the maintenance of closets for storing purposes
exclusively. (9-68)
CHAPTER 13
BROKERS
SECTION:
7-13-1: Brokers Defined
7-13-2: License Required
7-13-3: Application
7-13-4: License Fees
7-13-5: Suspension; Revocation of License
7-13-6: Fraud
7-13-7: Business at More Than One Location
7-13-8: Employees Acting as Brokers
7-13-9: Real Estate Broker as General Broker
7-13-10: Payment of Commission
7-13-11: Violation
7-13-12: For Sale Signs
7-13-1: BROKERS DEFINED:
Any person other than an employee of the principal for whom the business is
done that negotiates, buys, sells, trades, leases, or handles for another, on a
commission basis, or on the basis of compensation in proportion to the amount
of the transaction, any stocks, bonds, mortgages, loans, investment securities,
certificates of indebtedness, foreign exchange letters of credit, steamship
transportation tickets, grain, provisions, produce, livestock, goods, wares,
merchandise or any other commodity, article or property (except real property),
whether similar or dissimilar to those herein mentioned, or acts through the
medium of another licensed broker in the capacity and for any of the purposes
aforesaid, is hereby defined as a general broker.
A real estate broker within the meaning of this Chapter is any person, who, for
a compensation or valuable consideration, sells or offers for sale, buys or
offers to buy or negotiates the purchase or sale or exchange of real estate, or
who leases, or negotiates leases thereof, or of the improvements thereon, for
others.
A real estate salesman within the meaning of this Chapter is any person who,
for a compensation or valuable consideration, is employed either directly or
indirectly by a real estate broker, or by an attorney in fact, as provided by
State law, who sells or offers for sale, buys or offers to buy or negotiates
the purchase or sale or exchange of real estate, or who leases or offers to
lease or rents or offers for rent any real estate, or negotiates leases thereof
or of the improvements thereon, for others.
An insurance broker is hereby defined to mean any person who for money,
commission, brokerage, or anything of value acts or aids in any manner in the
solicitation or negotiation on behalf of the assured of contracts of insurance
on lives, buildings, vessels, or other property, including workmen's
compensation, personal accident and disability, plate glass, automobile, and
all forms of casualty insurance, and fidelity and surety bonds. (Ord. dated 7-
11-72)
7-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate as a broker without being licensed therefor as
herein provided. No person shall collect any commission and no person shall pay
any commission or other compensation to any person engaging in the business of
or acting in the capacity of a broker unless the person is duly licensed as
required in the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-3: APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of, or to act in
the capacity of a broker without first having obtained a license to do so.
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk. No such license
shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good character.
Application for a license shall be made in conformity with the provisions of
this Code relating to applications for licenses. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-4: LICENSE FEES:
No such license shall be issued for a sum less than the full annual license fee
as provided in Chapter 46 of this Title. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-5: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The President may suspend the license of any insurance broker for such length
of time as he may deem proper, or may revoke the same whenever any such broker
shall have violated any of the provisions of this Chapter, shall have wilfully
misrepresented the terms of any policy of insurance or the benefits to be
derived therefrom, shall have wilfully deceived any person with regard to any
insurance policy, or shall have failed or refused to pay over to the insurer
any money collected or received by him from the assured for any insurance,
shall have been convicted of any dishonorable conduct or dishonest practices.
(Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-6: FRAUD:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating as a real estate broker or a real
estate salesman to practice fraud or deception of any sort or to make false
pretenses of any kind, or to represent both parties to a transaction without
the knowledge of both parties. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-7: BUSINESS AT MORE THAN ONE LOCATION:
Where a person desires to engage in the business of a general broker at more
than one place within the Village, a separate license shall be required for
each of such places, and the full license fee as herein fixed shall be charged
for each such license issued. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-8: EMPLOYEES ACTING AS BROKERS:
Any person employed by a person licensed as a general broker under the
provisions of this Chapter who shall himself, on his own account and not as
such employees engage in the business or act in the capacity of a general
broker, shall be amenable to all the provisions of this Chapter,
notwithstanding the fact of such employment, and shall be required to take out
a general broker's license. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-9: REAL ESTATE BROKER AS GENERAL BROKER:
Any person licensed as real estate broker in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter shall be permitted to engage in the business or act in the
capacity of a general broker. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-10: PAYMENT OF COMMISSION:
No person shall pay any commission or other compensation to any person engaging
in the business of, or acting in the capacity of, a general broker unless the
person so engaging or acting in the capacity of a general broker is duly
licensed as a general broker in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
No person licensed as an insurance broker shall pay any commission or other
compensation to any person for negotiating contracts of insurances other than
to brokers licensed under this Chapter. (Ord. dated 7-11-72)
7-13-11: VIOLATION:
Any insurance broker violating the provisions of Section
7-13-9 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the license issued to such
broker shall be revoked. No other insurance broker's license shall be issued to
such person for a period of one year from the date of such revocation. (Ord.
dated 7-11-72)
7-13-12: FOR SALE SIGNS:
   (A)   Residential Districts Zoned A, B, C and D: In residential districts
zoned A, B, C and D, it shall be permissible to erect one sign advertising
subject property as "for sale". Said sign shall be no larger than eighteen
inches (18") in height by thirty two inches (32") in width. Sign shall be
erected parallel to the front side of the property on which it is located, and
shall not exceed five feet (5') in height over existing grade. Sign shall also
be placed no closer than six feet (6') from the front property line, if proper
setback from the front property line does not exist then sign shall be placed
as close to the structure as possible. Under no circumstances shall any sign be
erected on Village right of way, or easement.
   (B)   Permit and Fees: Prior to the erection of any signs advertising
property as "for sale" an application must be filled out and approved by the
Village Building Department. The fee for said permit shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00), payable to the Village. Said permit shall be good for a
period of six (6) months. If after a period of six (6) months said sign is
still needed a new permit must be applied for.
Any person convicted of a violation of this Section shall be fined in a sum not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such violation continues. (Ord.
94-24, 9-28-94)
CHAPTER 14
CARTERS
SECTION:
7-14-1: Definition
7-14-2: License Fee
7-14-3: Application
7-14-1: DEFINITION:
Every truck, wagon, automobile, autocar, auto truck, or other vehicle of any
kind, which shall be operated, driven, or employed for the purpose of
transporting or conveying bundles, parcels, furniture, trunks, baggage, goods,
wares, merchandise, produce, or other articles within the Village for hire or
reward, shall be deemed a cart within the meaning of this Chapter, whether such
vehicle is employed or hired from any public stand, public way, garage, office,
or other pace in the Village by the day, weeks month or year.
Any person engaged in the business of operating a cart shall be deemed a
carter.
7-14-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license tax imposed upon every carter shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
No license shall be issued except upon payment of the full annual license tax.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a carter
without first having paid such license tax.
7-14-3: APPLICATION:
An application shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of
this Code relating to applications for licenses and such application shall
include a statement of the number of vehicles with such details of description
and on such forms as may be required by the Clerk. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 14A
CELLULAR TOWERS
SECTION:
7-14A-1: Definition
7-14A-2: License Required
7-14A-3: Application
7-14A-4: License Fee
7-14A-1: DEFINITION:
The term "cellular tower" as used in this chapter, is hereby defined as a
raised structure built for the purpose of supporting antennae and transmitters/
receivers used to deploy various technologies to a subscriber base. This
technology can include telephony, mobile data, radio and television services.
(Ord. 2017-18, 10-10-2017)
7-14A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a cellular tower without
having first obtained a license therefor. (Ord. 2017-18, 10-10-2017)
7-14A-3: APPLICATION:
An application for said license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. (Ord. 2017-18,
10-10-2017)
7-14A-4: LICENSE FEE:
For all cellular towers leasing space for the purpose of receiving/deploying
various technologies, the license fee shall be designated in chapter 46 of this
title. (Ord. 2017-18, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 16
DANCING SCHOOLS
SECTION:
7-16-1: Definition
7-16-2: License Fee
7-16-1: DEFINITION:
The words "dancing school" as used in this chapter shall be construed to mean
any building, room enclosure, premises, place or establishment in the Village
where instruction in the art of dancing or dancing lessons are given, and where
a charge or fee for such instruction or lessons is made, paid or received.
(1965 Code)
7-16-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each school licensed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be as designated in chapter 46 of this title. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 17
DEPARTMENT STORES
SECTION:
7-17-1: Licenses Required
7-17-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a department store, without first obtaining
any and all licenses required. The licenses required, and the fees therefor,
shall be as may be required by the provisions of this Code for any item,
article or merchandise, sold within the department store or business or type of
business carried on within the department store, as if such item, article or
merchandise or business or type of business were sold or carried on to the
exclusion of all other business. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 18
FEED DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 19
FILLING STATIONS
SECTION:
7-19-1: Filling Station Defined
7-19-2: License Required
7-19-3: Application For License
7-19-4: License Fees
7-19-5: Inspection
7-19-6: License Not Transferable
7-19-7: Change Of Location
7-19-8: Location; Frontage Consents (Rep. by Ord. 2018-21, 9-11-2018)
7-19-9: Storage Regulations
7-19-1: FILLING STATION DEFINED:
The words "filling station" as used in this chapter shall be held to mean and
are hereby defined as meaning any building, structure, premises, enclosure or
other place where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or
stationary, and containing either carbon bisulfate, gasoline, naphtha, benzol,
hydro-carbon (gas drips), liquefied petroleum gas, acetone, kerosene,
turpentine, or other inflammable liquids, having a flash point below one
hundred eighty seven degrees Fahrenheit (187°F), are kept or located for the
purpose of selling, offering for sale, or distributing any such liquids from
such containers, tank or tanks; provided, however, that the provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to any place where such inflammable liquids are kept or
sold for medicinal purposes only. (1965 Code)
7-19-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on the business of a filling
station without first having obtained a license therefor, as hereinafter
provided. (1965 Code)
7-19-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for such license for the business of managing, conducting,
operating or carrying on a filling station shall conform to the provisions of
this Code relating to applications for licenses, and shall specify the location
of the building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other place in which it is
proposed to keep such filling station, and the capacity or capacities in
gallons of the container or containers, tank or tanks. Every such application
shall be approved by the Board of Trustees before a license shall be issued.
(1965 Code)
7-19-4: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fee for each filling station shall be as designated in
chapter 46 of this title.
No station shall have in excess of six (6) containers. (1965 Code)
7-19-5: INSPECTION:
All filling stations shall be conducted and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this Code with regard to fire prevention, and storage of
inflammable liquids, and shall be inspected by the Chief of the Fire Department
or his duly authorized representative at least once every year. (1965 Code)
7-19-6: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
No license granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be assigned or
transferred to any other person, nor shall any such license authorize any
person other than the licensee named therein to do business or act under such
license. (1965 Code)
7-19-7: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
If any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter, shall, before the
expiration of such license, desire to change the location of the business
conducted thereunder, the licensee shall notify the Clerk and shall furnish all
of the information which is required to be furnished on an original application
for license. Every such application for change of location shall be approved by
the Board of Trustees before a change in location shall be authorized. (1965
Code)
7-19-8: LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-21, 9-11-2018)
7-19-9: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
No tank for the storage of flammable liquids shall be installed in any lot or
plot of ground where any of the boundaries of such lot or plot of ground are
within three hundred feet (300') of the nearest boundary of any lot or plot of
ground used for a school, hospital, church, park, or theater. (8-26-69)
CHAPTER 20
FLORISTS OR GREENHOUSES
SECTION:
7-20-1: Definitions
7-20-2: License Required
7-20-3: Application
7-20-4: License Fee
7-20-5: Regulations
7-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter they shall have
the meaning ascribed to them:
Florist, as used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean any building, room,
stand, enclosure, premises, place, establishment, or part of establishment,
operated, maintained, or conducted for the sale, or offering, or keeping for
sale at wholesale or retail, any flowers, plants, trees or shrubs, including
Christmas trees, of all varieties and description.
Greenhouse, as used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean any building or
room constructed principally of glass or other similar transparent material,
used, operated or maintained for the purpose of raising or growing any flowers,
plants, trees or shrubs for sale, either at wholesale or retail, wherein
artificial heat is used to stimulate or promote the growth processes.
7-20-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on the business of florist
without having first obtained a license therefor.
7-20-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a license to conduct the business of a florist or a greenhouse
shall be made to the Clerk in writing and shall state the name and address of
the applicant, a description of the place where the business is to be
conducted, and the name and home address of the proprietor or owner, and the
person designated to manage such place of business.
7-20-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each florist business shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
The annual license fee for each greenhouse business shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title, provided, however, that any person who obtains a
greenhouse license shall be entitled to conduct the business of a florist
without the payment of any additional fee.
7-20-5: REGULATIONS:
Every establishment where the business of a florist is conducted, managed or
carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. No decayed,
decaying, unwholesome, contaminated, or diseased flowers, plants, or other
things shall be allowed to remain on or about said establishment, and said
establishment shall be kept clear of rubbish and inflammable matter.
Such establishment shall comply with all State laws governing the sale,
possession, growing or disposition of noxious, diseased or infected plants,
trees or shrubs.
CHAPTER 21
FOOD DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 87-20, 10-13-1987)
CHAPTER 22
FOOD DELIVERY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-22-1: License Required
7-22-2: Application; Fee
7-22-3: Exemptions
7-22-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any vehicle, including wagons
and motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by human power, for the storage or
carrying of any meat, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, lard, vegetables, bread or
bakery products, or any other provisions or food intended for human
consumption, including milk, for the purpose of delivering any such food to any
place in the Village for the use and consumption or for resale in the Village
for such purposes, unless a license for such vehicle is first secured and
provisions of this Chapter are fully complied with.
7-22-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and shall recite the
name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the name or names of the persons
from whom such deliveries are made, and the nature of the goods carried. The
Clerk shall issue such licenses and shall give the Health Officer a list of all
such licenses issued. The annual fee for each such vehicle shall be as
designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-22-3: EXEMPTIONS:
No license fee shall be required for any vehicle used to deliver foodstuffs
from any establishment which is licensed and inspected as a food dealing
establishment; but all provisions of this Title, other than providing for the
payment of a fee, shall be complied with in connection with such vehicle.
CHAPTER 23
RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
7-23-1: Prohibition On Consumption Of Alcohol On Nonlicensed Premises
7-23-1: PROHIBITION ON CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL ON NONLICENSED PREMISES:
No restaurant shall allow alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises of
such business unless such business has been issued a valid village liquor
license. For the purpose of this section, the term "restaurant" shall have the
meaning given to it in section
7-3-1 of this title. (Ord. 2009-12, 7-28-2009)
CHAPTER 23A
SANITATION OF FOOD/RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
7-23A-1: Regulations
7-23A-2: Penalty
7-23A-1: REGULATIONS:
This issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate retail food
establishments; the prohibiting of sale of unsound or mislabeled food or drink;
the enforcement of this Chapter; shall be regulated in accordance with chapter
10 compliance procedures of the 1976 and subsequent editions of Food and Drug
Administration "Food Service Sanitation Ordinance"; the inspection of food
service establishments shall be regulated in accordance with the current and
subsequent Illinois Department of Public Health "Food Service Sanitation Rules
and Regulations" on file with the Secretary of the State; the inspection of
retail food stores shall be regulated in accordance with the Illinois
Department of Public Health "Retail Food Store Sanitation Rules and
Regulations" on file with the Secretary of State. Three (3) certified copies of
the Food and Drug Administration "Food Service Sanitation Ordinance," Illinois
Department of Public Health "Food Sanitation Rules and Regulations" and the
Illinois Department of Public Health "Retail Food Store Sanitation Rules and
Regulations" shall be on file at the office of the Village Clerk's office.
7-23A-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition thereto, such
persons may be enjoined from continuing such violations. Each day upon which
such a violation occurs constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. 86-28, 10-28-
86)
CHAPTER 24
FUEL OIL STORAGE STATIONS
SECTION:
7-24-1: Definition
7-24-2: License Required
7-24-3: Application
7-24-4: License Fee
7-24-5: Smoking
7-24-6: Waste Disposal
7-24-7: Building; Fire Regulations
7-24-1: DEFINITION:
The term "fuel oil storage station" as used in this Chapter is hereby defined
as meaning any building, structure, premise, enclosure or other place wherein
are kept a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or
stationary, for the receiving or storage of fuel oil for sale either at
wholesale or retail, where the total storage capacity is not less than one
thousand (1,000) gallons.
7-24-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating or maintaining a fuel oil
storage station without first having obtained a license therefor.
7-24-3: APPLICATION:
An application for such license shall be made upon a form to be prepared and
provided by the Clerk.
7-24-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each such fuel oil storage station shall be as
designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-24-5: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any fuel oil storage
station.
7-24-6: WASTE DISPOSAL:
Waste oil or other flammable liquids shall be stored in metal containers
pending removal from the premises. No such waste shall be permitted to drain
into any sewer or storm water drainage system. Rags and soiled waste shall be
kept in metal containers.
7-24-7: BUILDING; FIRE REGULATIONS:
The construction and equipment of fuel oil storage stations, including tanks,
and the requirements for safety clearances around same, shall be made and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of the building Code and other
applicable regulations. Fuel oil storage stations shall be inspected by the
Fire Chief or his duly authorized representative at least once every year.
CHAPTER 25
PUBLIC GARAGES
SECTION:
7-25-1: Definition
7-25-2: License Required
7-25-3: Application
7-25-4: License Fee
7-25-5: Location; Number of Vehicles
7-25-1: DEFINITION:
The words "public garage" as used in this Chapter shall be held to mean, and
are hereby defined as meaning any building or other place where automobiles,
trucks or any similar self-propelled vehicles are kept or let for hire or
reward to any person whether such vehicles are kept or let for hire or reward
to any person, whether such vehicle so hired out or let with or without an
operator for same, or where such vehicles are kept ready for use and where rent
is paid to the keeper thereof for such keeping.
7-25-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep, conductor operate a public garage without first obtaining
a license so to do in the manner hereinafter provided.
7-25-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to keep, conductor operate a public garage shall make
application to the Clerk.
7-25-4: LICENSE FEE:
For all public garages where vehicles are kept ready for use and where rent is
paid to the keeper thereof for such keeping, or where vehicles as described in
Section
7-25-1 hereof are repaired, the license fee shall be as designated in Chapter
46 of this Title.
7-25-5: LOCATION; NUMBER OF VEHICLES:
Each license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall set forth the
location of the garage and the number of vehicles which the licensees keep or
intend to keep at such licensed garage to be let or hired for reward.
CHAPTER 26
GOLF COURSES AND DRIVING RANGES
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 27
HARDWARE STORES
SECTION:
7-27-1: Retail Hardware Stores Defined
7-27-2: Application
7-27-3: License Fee
7-27-4: Additional Privileges
7-27-1: RETAIL HARDWARE STORES DEFINED:
The term "retail hardware store" is hereby defined to mean any building, room,
enclosure, premises, place, establishment, or part of an establishment in the
Village operated, maintained, or conducted for the sale or offering for sale at
retail of any of the following articles: Hardware; tinware; household
appliances; aluminumware; enamelware; jewelry; cutlery; tools; implements;
apparatus; machinery; plumbing, engineers', janitors', blacksmiths',
contractors', or electrical supplies; gas, plumbing, or electrical fixtures;
other articles or wares made largely of metals; kerosene; and loaded shot
shells or cartridges where not more than twenty five thousand (25,000) are kept
on hand at one time; provided, however, that dealers or establishments or parts
of establishments of a similar nature specifically defined and licensed by
other parts of this Code shall be exempt from the provisions licensing retail
hardware stores.
7-27-2: APPLICATION:
No person shall engage in the business of a retail hardware store without first
having obtained a license therefor.
An application for a retail hardware store license shall be made in conformity
with the provisions of this Code relating to applications for licenses. The
applicant shall also describe the premises to be licensed and state the
location of the same.
7-27-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a retail hardware store license shall, be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-27-4: ADDITIONAL PRIVILEGES:
Every licensed retail hardware store shall have the privilege of engaging in
the business of a retail paint store, within the same building, room,
enclosure, premises, place, establishment, or part of an establishment without
the necessity of obtaining an additional license; provided, however, that the
minimum license fee in such case shall be as designated in Chapter 46 of this
Title.
CHAPTER 28
ICE DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 29
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
7-29-1: License Required
7-29-2: License Fees
7-29-3: Reports
7-29-4: Time of Payment
7-29-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association not incorporated under
the laws of the State, to engage in effecting fire insurance or to transact any
business of fire insurance without fully complying with the provisions of this
Chapter.
7-29-2: LICENSE FEES:
Any such corporation shall pay to the Treasurer for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the Fire Department a sum of money equal to two per cent (2%) of the
gross receipts each year received for premiums by any and all agents of any
such corporation or association for fire insurance policies on any property.
Such payments shall be made for the year ending the first of July of each year.
7-29-3: REPORTS:
Every person acting as representative for or on behalf of any such company or
association shall, on or before the fifteenth day of July of each year, render
to the Treasurer a full, true and just account verified by his oath of all
premiums which shall have been received by him on behalf of the company during
the preceding first of July on such fire insurance policies.
7-29-4: TIME OF PAYMENT:
All payments under the provisions of this Chapter shall be made on or before
the fifteenth day of July following the termination of the year for which such
payments are due.
CHAPTER 30
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
7-30-1: Definition
7-30-2: License Required
7-30-3: Application
7-30-4: License Fee
7-30-1: DEFINITION:
An itinerant merchant or transient vendor of merchandise under this Chapter is
hereby defined as one who is a nonresident carrying on a merchandise business ,
who does not rent a store, loft, warehouse, yard, office space or showroom by
the year or holds less than a year's lease on the same.
7-30-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to do business as an itinerant merchant without having
first secured a license therefor.
7-30-3: APPLICATION:
Application for such license shall be made to the Clerk in writing and shall
state the street number, City and State from whence he came, the firm said
applicant represents, the kind of merchandise or commodities he desires to sell
and the place applicant proposes to sell such merchandise or commodities.
7-30-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such license shall be based on the number of days for which said
license shall be issued, and shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this title.
CHAPTER 31
JUNK DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 88-21, 7-26-1988)
CHAPTER 32
JUNKYARD
(Rep. by Ord. 88-21, 7-26-1988)
CHAPTER 33
LAUNDRY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-33-1: Definition
7-33-2: Application
7-33-3: License Fee
7-33-4: Name of Laundry on Vehicle
7-33-1: DEFINITION:
The term "laundry vehicle", as used in this Chapter, shall be construed to mean
any wagon, automobile, or other vehicle used for the purpose of collecting or
delivering laundry within the Village limits.
7-33-2: APPLICATION:
No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, on any of the public ways of
the Village, any laundry vehicle without first having obtained a license for
the same.
7-33-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each laundry vehicle shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
No license shall be issued except for the full license fee as herein provided.
7-33-4: NAME OF LAUNDRY ON VEHICLE:
No vehicle of any kind shall be used for the purpose of collecting or
delivering laundry work, unless said vehicle shall carry upon two (2) sides of
the same, in plain legible letters, at least one and one half inches (11/2")
high, the name of the laundry where the laundry work is actually done.
CHAPTER 34
LUMBER YARDS
SECTION:
7-34-1: License Required
7-34-2: Application
7-34-3: License Fee
7-34-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep, carry on, conduct or maintain a lumber yard or other
place where lumber is sold from a yard, car or place where lumber is stored for
the purpose of seasoning or drying the same, or where second hand lumber is
stored or kept for sale, without first obtaining a license so to do as
hereinafter provided.
7-34-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to keep, conduct or maintain a lumber yard or a place for
the sale, storing, or keeping of lumber as described in Section
7-34-1 of this Chapter, shall make application in writing to the Clerk for a
license so to do, setting forth therein the name of the applicant and the place
where it is desired to keep such lumber yard or the place to be used for the
storage or sale of lumber, and upon the payment of the license fee as
hereinafter provided, the Clerk shall issue to such applicant a license
attested by the proper authorities, authorizing the applicant to keep, conduct
or maintain a lumber yard or place for the storage or sale of lumber at the
place designated in such application.
7-34-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee to be paid therefor shall be be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
CHAPTER 35
MACHINE SHOPS
SECTION:
7-35-1: Definition
7-35-2: License Required
7-35-3: Application
7-35-4: License Fee
7-35-5: Night Operation Prohibited in Residential Areas
7-35-6: Sanitary Requirements
7-35-7: Noise
7-35-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter the term "machine shop" is hereby defined to
mean a work shop in which machines are made or parts thereof are repaired or
where parts of machines or tools, wood, implements, dies, gears, screws, tin or
metal or other articles are cut, filed, shaped, punched, stamped, planed, sawed
or repaired by means of a lathe, drill, punch, saw, planer or other machinery.
7-35-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a machine shop as defined in this Chapter
without having first obtained a license therefor.
7-35-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to conduct or operate a machine shop shall first make
application to the Clerk for a license for such machine shop.
7-35-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each machine shop shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-35-5: NIGHT OPERATION PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
No machine shop shall be operated in the night time between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M., and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., in any block in which the
majority of the buildings on both sides of the street are used exclusively for
residential purposes or within one hundred feet (100') of such block.
7-35-6: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
No building, structure or part thereof used for or in connection with any
machine shop shall be so used as to endanger the health or property of the
employees or of the public. The owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or manager of
any such machine shop shall cause all floors and other surface around or
beneath any machine or work bench to be kept in good order and repair and shall
have suitable and convenient sanitary receptacles for receiving waste and
cloths used in and about the machine shop for the purpose of cleaning machines
or parts thereof or which are intended for any other necessary use.
7-35-7: NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate within one hundred feet (100') of any
residence, a machine shop wherein pneumatic hammers or other apparatus are used
which cause loud or unusual noises.
CHAPTER 36
MOTION PICTURES AND THEATRICALS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 37
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SHOPS
SECTION:
7-37-1: Definition
7-37-2: License Required
7-37-3: Application
7-37-4: License Fee
7-37-5: Location And Frontage Consents
7-37-6: Vehicles
7-37-7: Open Storage Restrictions
7-37-1: DEFINITION:
The term "motor vehicle repair shop", as used in this chapter, is hereby
defined as meaning any building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other place
where the business of doing repair work on or for motor vehicles or any of the
component parts thereof, the replacing of or the adding of parts thereto, or
the polishing, washing, greasing, painting or refinishing of such vehicles is
carried on. (1965 Code)
7-37-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a motor vehicle repair shop without
first having obtained a license therefor. (1965 Code)
7-37-3: APPLICATION:
An application for said license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this code relating to applications for licenses. The applicant
shall also specify the number of persons to be engaged therein. (1965 Code)
7-37-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for each motor vehicle repair shop license shall be as
designated in chapter 46 of this title. (1965 Code)
7-37-5: LOCATION AND FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
No motor vehicle repair shop shall be conducted or operated within one hundred
feet (100') of any building used as a hospital, church, or public or parochial
school, or the grounds thereof. (1965 Code)
7-37-6: VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to store or park damaged vehicles, junked vehicles or
vehicles awaiting repair in any open lot or premises open to the public view,
except that damaged vehicles may be stored or parked in an area that is open to
the public view in accordance with section
7-37-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-11, 10-23-2007)
7-37-7: OPEN STORAGE RESTRICTIONS:
Any business for which a license has been issued for the conduct and operation
of a motor vehicle repair shop business may store or park damaged vehicles in
any area that is open to the public view; provided that:
   (A)   The following are located on the same lot: 1) the area in which
damaged vehicles are being stored or parked; and 2) the building housing the
business licensed for the conduct and operation of the motor vehicle repair
shop business;
   (B)   The lot described in subsection (A) of this section shall only contain
those vehicles which can be safely stored or parked in parking stalls which are
not less than ten feet (10') wide and twenty five feet (25') long, with each
row of such stalls being separated by an aisle measuring not less than eight
feet (8') in width;
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code, no vehicle shall be stored
or parked in a lot described in this section: 1) if that vehicle presents an
imminent threat to health or safety; or 2) for more than fourteen (14)
consecutive calendar days.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. Every day such a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   In the event that any person or entity holding a business license
issued by the village of Posen is determined to be guilty of two (2) or more
violations of this section, the village of Posen may revoke that person's or
entity's village of Posen business license. Such revocation shall be grounds
for the village of Posen's denial of further applications for a business
license by such person or entity or for any other entity in which the violator
has an ownership interest. (Ord. 2007-11, 10-23-2007)
CHAPTER 38
PAINT STORES
SECTION:
7-38-1: Retail Paint Store Defined
7-38-2: License Required
7-38-3: Application; Approval
7-38-4: License Fee
7-38-1: RETAIL PAINT STORE DEFINED:
The term "retail paint store" is hereby defined to mean any building, room,
enclosure, premises, place, establishment or part of an establishment in the
Village operated, or conducted for the sale or offering for sale at retail of
any paints, dry colors, wall paper, varnishes, calcimine, white or red lead,
raw or boiled linseed oil, turpentine, dryer, benzine, naphtha, painters'
tools, supplies and equipment; and provide further, that dealers or
establishments or parts of establishments of a similar nature specifically
defined and licensed by other provisions of this code shall be exempt from the
provisions of that part of this Title a dealing with paint stores.
7-38-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a retail paint store without first
having obtained a license therefor.
7-38-3: APPLICATION; APPROVAL:
An application for a retail paint store license shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. The applicant shall so describe the premises, as well as the location
of the same.
Every such application shall be approved by the Fire Department and by the
Building Commissioner before a license shall be issued.
7-38-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a retail paint store license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
CHAPTER 39
PHOTOGRAPHERS
SECTION:
7-39-1: Definition
7-39-2: License Required
7-39-3: Application
7-39-4: License Fee
7-39-5: Employee
7-39-6: Fire Prevention; Inspection
7-39-1: DEFINITION:
The word "photographer" is hereby defined to mean any person operating,
managing, or maintaining a photographic studio, a postcard studio, tintype or
ferrotype studio, a bromide enlarging plant, an amateur finishing or developing
plant, a portrait copying house, or engaging in the business of photography,
including commercial, portrait and home portrait photography, or the business
of a lantern slide maker, or of an itinerant or transient photographer, or the
business of photography for any purpose whatsoever.
7-39-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a photographer without first having
obtained a license therefor; provided, however, that the provisions of this
Chapter shall not apply to photographing for or developing of motion picture
films.
7-39-3: APPLICATION:
An application for a license under this Chapter shall be made in conformity
with the provisions of this Code relating to applications for licenses. In
addition, the applicant shall state the place at which it is desired or
intended to carry on the business of photographer, giving a description of the
premises, as well as the location of the same.
7-39-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a photographer's license, where not more than two (2)
persons are engaged in such business, shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-39-5: EMPLOYEE:
The number of employees shall be computed on the basis of the number of persons
employed or engaged therein and shall include office employees, canvassers, and
solicitors.
7-39-6: FIRE PREVENTION; INSPECTION:
Every person conducting the business of a photographer shall comply with the
fire regulations of this Code, and the Fire Chief shall periodically inspect
each such place of business to determine whether such regulations are being
complied with.
CHAPTER 40
SECOND HAND DEALERS
SECTION:
7-40-1: License Required
7-40-2: License Application
7-40-3: License Fee
7-40-4: Frontage Consents
7-40-5: Records
7-40-6: Use of Unlicensed Premises
7-40-7: Melting, Wrecking and Remodeling
7-40-8: Accumulation of Refuse
7-40-9: Purchases from Minors
7-40-10: Prohibited Businesses
7-40-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a second hand
dealer with out first obtaining a license.
7-40-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
An application for license as a second hand dealer shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses.
7-40-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a second hand dealer's license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-40-4: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of a second hand dealer on any
lot fronting on any public way in any block on which one half (1/2) of the
buildings on both sides of the public way are used exclusively for residence
purposes, or within fifty feet (50') of any such public way, without the
written consent of a majority of the property owners according to frontage on
both sides of such public way. Such frontage consents shall be filed with the
Commissioner of Buildings.
7-40-5: RECORDS:
Every second hand dealer shall keep a book in which there shall be made, at the
time of the transaction, a record in English of every article received,
purchased, sold or exchanged by him, setting forth the following: The date of
the transaction, the name and residence of the purchaser or seller, and a brief
description of the article sold or purchased, including identification numbers
thereon, if any.
Such record shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of the
Chief of Police and any member of the Police Force, or any person duly
authorized in writing for such purpose by the Chief of Police.
7-40-6: USE OF UNLICENSED PREMISES:
No second hand dealer shall make use of any property, private or public, not
included within the licensed premises, for the storage, handling or display of
any second hand article.
7-40-7: MELTING, WRECKING AND REMODELING:
No second hand dealer shall take apart or melt up any second hand article, or
remodel or rebuild the same until he shall have made a record of his intention
so to do, along with the description of such article and all other data
required to be recorded, in the record of purchases, sales, and exchanges
hereinbefore in this Chapter provided for, and until he shall have kept such
article intact in his licensed place of business for inspection for ten (10)
days.
7-40-8: ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful, for
any second hand dealer to permit any debris, rubbish, dirt or refuse to be
accumulated on his licensed premises or to permit any dense smoke, cinders,
dust, gas or odor which shall be offensive or prejudicial to the health or
dangerous to the life of any person to escape from his licensed premises, and
the Commissioner of Buildings or any officer designated by him shall take
necessary action to abate such nuisance.
7-40-9: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
No second hand dealer shall purchase may second hand article whatsoever from
any minor without the written consent of his parents or guardians.
7-40-10: PROHIBITED BUSINESSES:
No person licensed as a second hand dealer shall, during the period of his
license, receive or hold a license to carry on the business of a pawnbroker or
keeper of a junk shop.
CHAPTER 41
SHOOTING GALLERIES
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 41A
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
7-41A-1: Definitions
7-41A-2: Certificate Of Registration
7-41A-3: Application For Certificate Of Registration
7-41A-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
7-41A-5: Village Policy On Soliciting
7-41A-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting
7-41A-7: Duty Of Solicitors
7-41A-8: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
7-41A-9: Time Limit On Soliciting
7-41A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Shall mean and include any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which
certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while
engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Shall mean and include any one or more of the following activities:
   (A)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
   (B)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   (C)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   (D)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
organization, corporation, project or person. (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970; amd. Ord.
2002-07, 2-26-2002)
7-41A-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting" as herein defined from persons
in residences within this village, is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
70-17, 7-14-1970)
7-41A-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the chief of police of the village and filed with such chief. The
applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application.
   (A)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address if other than residence address; also
social security number;
   (B)   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if other
than present address;
   (C)   Age of applicant and marital status, and if married, the name of
spouse;
   (D)   Physical description of the applicant;
   (E)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
   (F)   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other
than present employer;
   (G)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
   (H)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
   (I)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any;
   (J)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
chapter ever been revoked;
   (K)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
   (L)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal law of
the United States; (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
   (M)   Also, such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
The Posen chief of police may require an applicant to submit to fingerprinting
by the police department to verify identification, and shall verify the
applicant's place of address, and review any criminal record of the applicant.
The Posen chief of police shall maintain in his office a record of every
application received and acted upon, together with all other information and
data pertaining to the application and certificates of registration issued
under the provisions of this chapter, and the denial of applications.
Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed
and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with
the number upon which it was issued. (Ord. 2002-07, 2-26-2002)
Each applicant for a certificate of registration shall pay to the village an
administrative charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon submission of the
applicant's application for a certificate of registration. No action shall be
taken upon such an application until such administrative charge is paid. (Ord.
2008-25, 11-25-2008)
7-41A-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
When the chief of police has concluded his inquiry as provided under section
7-41A-3 of this chapter he shall forward the information along with any other
information or comments pertinent to the determination of whether to issue the
certificate to the village board of trustees. The village board may issue or
deny the certificate based upon criteria provided for herein. A certificate of
registration may be denied to any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of the commission of a felony within the last five
(5) years of the date of the application;
   (B)   Any person who has been found in violation of this chapter or whose
certificate has been previously revoked;
   (C)   Any person who is soliciting on behalf of a person or legal entity
that has had its certificate previously revoked;
   (D)   Any person whose goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs or services
have been determined to be inferior or endanger the health, safety or welfare
of the public;
   (E)   The number of certificates currently issued in the village is such
that the issuance of additional certificates would threaten the peaceful
enjoyment of residents' homes. (Ord. 2002-07, 2-26-2002)
Upon the issuance of a certificate of registration the person soliciting shall
be issued a permit card with his or her photo affixed. All solicitors shall
display the permit card at all times while soliciting. Any certificate of
registration issued shall state the expiration date thereof and shall be
revoked by the village board if the holder of the certificate is found in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false
statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the
issuance of a certificate of registration under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-07, 2-26-2002; amd. Ord. 2008-25, 11-25-2008)
Immediately upon such revocation the village clerk shall notify the holder of
the certificate by certified mail addressed to the holder's residence set forth
in the application with a copy of the notice sent to the chief of police.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (Ord. 2002-07, 2-26-2002)
7-41A-5: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the governing body of the village
that the occupant or occupants of the residences in the village shall make the
determination of whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their
respective residence. If no determination is made as is provided in section
7-41A-6 of this chapter, then in that event, registration is not required.
(Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
7-41A-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter, shall comply
with the following directions:
Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to solicitors,
or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in
the manner following:
A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3"x4") in size,
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door of the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN POSEN INVITED
   or
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the Posen chief of police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of
the determination by the occupant of the residence of the information contained
thereon. (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
7-41A-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
village upon which a "residence", as herein defined, is located to first
examine the notice provided for in section
7-41A-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN
POSEN INVITED", then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises; and if the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
7-41A-8: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of
section
7-41A-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
7-41A-9: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as
herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national
holiday. (Ord. 70-17, 7-14-1970)
CHAPTER 42
TOBACCO DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 43
UNDERTAKERS
SECTION:
7-43-1: License Required
7-43-2: Application and Qualifications
7-43-3: Frontage Consents
7-43-4: License Fee
7-43-5: License For More Than One Place
7-43-6: Assistants in Charge
7-43-7: Posting of License or Assistants' Certificate
7-43-8: No-License Certificate
7-43-9: Undertaking Rooms
7-43-10: Suspension and Revocation of License
7-43-11: Surrender of License
7-43-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any individual to act as an undertaker, or to prepare
a dead body for burial or cremation, or to manage a funeral, or to conduct,
manage or be in charge of an undertaking room, store, or place, or in any way
to advertise or hold himself out to the public as an undertaker by card, sign,
solicitation or otherwise, without first obtaining a license as an undertaker.
In conducting any business under a license herein provided for, no licensee
shall use, or join in using, as part of or in connection with the name under
which said business is conducted, the name of any person who is not both
licensed hereunder and actually engaged in said business.
7-43-2: APPLICATION AND QUALIFICATIONS:
An application for a license under this Chapter shall be made to the Board of
Health. The applicant shall state his name and residence address, that he is
licensed by the state to practice embalming and funeral directing, give the
number of his state registration card, and the location of the room, store or
place where he intends to engage in the business of undertaking.
Every such applicant shall also furnish to the Board of Health evidence that he
has knowledge of, and is familiar with the State laws, the provisions of this
Code, and the rules and regulations of the Board of Health, governing and
concerning the removal, preparation and burial or cremation of the dead, and
that such applicant has a practical knowledge of approved and sanitary methods
of caring for dead bodies and preparing the same for burial or cremation,
including the embalming and disinfection of dead bodies. The Board of Health
shall give to each applicant not less than three (3) days notice of the time
when said applicant will be required to furnish evidence of his qualifications.
Said applicant shall further furnish to said Board evidence that the applicant
is a resident of the Village or maintains an undertaking establishment in the
Village, and that he is of good moral character and a fit person to be licensed
as an undertaker. No license shall be issued unless the foregoing requirements
have been complied with.
7-43-3: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
No morgue or undertaking establishment shall be conducted or operated on or
along any boulevard or pleasure driveway, or in any block in any street in
which one third (1/3) of the buildings on both sides of the street in such
block are used exclusively for residential purposes, without the written
consent of a majority of the property owners according to the frontage on both
sides of the boulevard, pleasure driveway, or street in the block in which it
is proposed to conduct or operate such morgue or undertaking establishment, but
nothing herein contained shall apply to any block in any street in which street
cars are operated.
Frontage consents, when required under this Section, shall be obtained and
filed with the Board of Health before a license shall be issued to an
undertaker for the premises sought to be used by such licensee.
Embalming rooms or morgues shall have the approval of the Health Officer. All
plans concerning embalming rooms shall be submitted to him for his approval.
7-43-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a license for each undertaker licensed hereunder shall be as
designated in Chapter 46 of this Title.
7-43-5: LICENSE FOR MORE THAN ONE PLACE:
Any license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall entitle the licensee to
engage in the business of undertaking only at and from the store, room or place
designated in such license, and if the applicant for such license shall desire
to engage in the business of undertaking at more than one store, room or place
in the Village, he shall be permitted to do so only upon the payment of a
license fee as hereinbefore fixed for each place, store or room.
7-43-6: ASSISTANTS IN CHARGE:
No individual other than a licensed undertaker, or authorized assistant, shall
be permitted to manage or control any undertaking room, store, place or
establishment, or to prepare dead bodies for burial or cremation, other than
the embalming by a State licensed embalmer, or to manage or conduct funerals in
the capacity of an undertaker.
7-43-7: POSTING OF LICENSE OR ASSISTANTS' CERTIFICATE:
The license certificate obtained under this Chapter shall be kept posted, for
the period of such license, in a conspicuous place of the licensed premises,
and if such place, room, store, or establishment be in charge or control or
under the management of a duly authorized assistant or assistants, in addition
thereto there shall also be kept posted the certificate or certificates of such
assistant or assistants during the period for which such certificate or
certificates is or are issued, in the same manner as is provided for the
posting of the undertaker's license.
7-43-8: NO-LICENSE CERTIFICATE:
When a certificate authorizing a person named therein to act as an undertaker's
assistant is surrendered to the Board of Health for the reason that such person
has ceased to be in actual charge of an undertaking place, or has ceased to be
in the active and exclusive employ of the licensed undertaker on whose
application said certificate was issued, that person named in such certificate
as authorized to act as an undertaker's assistant shall, upon his making the
application and paying the fee herein provided for, be entitled to receive a
certificate which shall be known as a no-license certificate and which shall
entitle him to receive a certificate authorizing him to act as an undertaker's
assistant, upon each subsequent application by a person qualified to apply for
the certificate under the provisions of Sections 7-42-6, and 7-42-7 of this
Chapter. Upon the making of such last named application said no-license
certificate shall be sufficient evidence to said Board of Health that the
person named therein is qualified to receive a certificate authorizing him to
act as an undertaker's assistant unless the Board of Health shall be in the
possession of evidence which affirmatively shows the contrary.
The fee for the issuance of such no-license certificate shall be five dollars
($5.00), which shall be paid to the Collector prior to the issuance thereof.
Each no-license certificate, shall be in force during one year following the
date of its issuance and may, upon application to the Board of Health be
renewed annually upon payment to the Collector of the sum of one dollar ($1.00)
for each such renewal.
7-43-9: UNDERTAKING ROOMS:
No individual shall be licensed to engage in the business of undertaking in any
establishment, store or place where any other occupation is carried on unless
such establishment, store or place used for the undertaking business shall be
provided with a compartment or room completely shut off or capable of being
completely shut off from the other parts of such establishment, store, or
place. Such compartment or room shall have free outside ventilation and light,
and its floor shall be constructed of or covered with a nonabsorbent material,
and shall be connected with a sewer by an approved sanitary drain.
All undertaking parlors or rooms shall comply with the area and space
requirements required by the Building Code as to commercial buildings and
structures.
7-43-10: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this Chapter may be suspended by the Board of Health
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, and said license may be revoked at
any time after the issuance thereof by the President, in addition to any other
penalty imposed by Title I, Chapter 3 of this Code, for a violation of any of
the provisions of this Code or of any law relating to such occupation or rule
or regulation of the Board of Health.
7-43-11: SURRENDER OF LICENSE:
Upon the revocation of any license or assistant's certificate issued pursuant
to this Chapter, the licensee, or, in the case of a certificate, the person
named in such certificate, shall forthwith surrender and deliver to the Board
of Health the license certificate or assistant's certificate so revoked. If any
person licensed hereunder, or the holder of any assistant's certificate issued
hereunder, or the holder of any assistant's certificate issued hereunder, shall
neglect, fail, or refuse to surrender and deliver such certificate, the Board
of Health shall have power, and it shall be its duty, to seize and destroy such
revoked certificate.
CHAPTER 44
WEARING APPAREL STORES
SECTION:
7-44-1: Definitions
7-44-2: License Required
7-44-3: License Fee
7-44-4: New Articles
7-44-5: Dressing Rooms
7-44-6: Inspections
7-44-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "wearing apparel store" is defined to mean any place in which any
wearing apparel, articles of clothing, shoes, hats or articles of a like
matter, are sold at retail directly to the consumer. (1965 Code)
7-44-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a wearing apparel store without first
obtaining a license therefor. (1965 Code)
7-44-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for wearing apparel stores shall be as designated in
Chapter 46 of this Title. (1965 Code)
7-44-4: NEW ARTICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this Chapter to conduct or
operate a wearing apparel store to sell any article which has been worn or used
prior to the sale to the consumer, or to label, mark or hold out to the public
that any article for sale is new and has not been previously worn or used,
unless said article is in fact new and has not been previously worn or used.
(1965 Code)
7-44-5: DRESSING ROOMS:
Every person conducting or operating a wearing apparel store which has for sale
articles of clothing which for fitting purposes may require the customer to
disrobe or partially disrobe must provide a room or rooms, of sufficient size,
clean, sanitary and lighted for such purposes; provided, that if articles of
such clothing are sold for the use of both sexes, at least one such fitting
room shall be set aside for each sex, and each such room to be marked to
indicate for which sex it is to be used in letters at least one inch (1") in
height. (1965 Code)
7-44-6: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief of Police and the Health Officer, or any person designated by them,
shall make periodic inspections to see that all provisions of this Chapter are
complied with. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 45
VIDEO GAME MACHINES
SECTION:
7-45-1: Definition
7-45-2: License Required
7-45-3: Application
7-45-4: License Fee
7-45-5: Operating Restrictions
7-45-6: Suspension And Revocation
7-45-7: Penalty
7-45-8: Video Gaming Machines
7-45-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this section, the term "video game machine" shall mean and include
any device which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token or disk, may be
operated by the public as a game, entertainment or amusement, and having a
video screen displaying any pictures, numbers, symbols or playing cards and
operating on electrical impulses or electrical contacts. (Ord. 96-02, 1-23-
1996)
7-45-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person, firm, corporation or association displaying for public patronage or
keeping for operation any "video game machine" as herein defined shall be
required to obtain a license for each video game machine from the village.
Application for such license shall be made to the village clerk upon a form to
be supplied by the village clerk for that purpose. A license must be issued
prior to the date the applicant installs any video game machine. If the video
game machine is already on the premises and is unlicensed, a license must be
obtained within sixty (60) days of the effective date of the ordinance codified
herein. The license must be displayed in a prominent place at the location of
the video game machine. The video game machine must have affixed to it a
current village video game machine decal with an assigned number and the name
and address of the business establishment. A video game machine may only be
used at the address set forth in the license. Licenses are not transferable.
(Ord. 96-02, 1-23-1996)
7-45-3: APPLICATION:
The application for such license shall require the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant, age, date, and place of birth;
   (B)   Names and addresses of all directors, officers and shareholders of
applicant, if applicable;
   (C)   Prior convictions of applicant, any director, officer or shareholder
of the applicant, if any;
   (D)   Name and address of the business establishment where the device is to
be operated and the business conducted at that place;
   (E)   Description of the video game machine to be covered by the license,
including the name of manufacturer and serial number; and
   (F)   Name and address of the owner of the video game machine.
The village clerk shall evaluate each application for a video game machine
license within thirty (30) days of the date the application is filed. At the
end of thirty (30) days, the village clerk shall either issue the license or
give a brief written statement of the reasons for rejecting the application. An
application shall be denied only for good cause. (Ord. 96-02, 1-23-1996)
7-45-4: LICENSE FEE:
Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the fee as set out
in section
7-46-4 of this title. Each license shall be effective for a period of one year.
A new application must be filed prior to the expiration of the license. (Ord.
96-02, 1-23-1996)
7-45-5: OPERATING RESTRICTIONS:
The following operation restrictions shall apply to all video game machines
located within the village:
   (A)   Gambling is expressly prohibited in connection with any video game
machine, except as expressly permitted under Section
7-45-8 herein;
   (B)   Awards for skill or for obtaining a particular score must be posted on
the device;
   (C)   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) who is operating any video
game machine must be accompanied by an adult;
   (D)   Video game machines are not to be placed or operated outside the
business premises, including, but not limited to, malls, hallways, parking
areas or in any required exit path; and
   (E)   Any business premises which operates video game machines shall, in
addition to the requirements herein, comply with Section
7-3-13 Sanitary and Special Conditions of Chapter 3 Alcoholic Liquors of
Village Code, except that such premises shall not be required to utilize
identification card readers/scanners under Section
7-13-3 (F). (Ord. 96-02, 1-23-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-23, 9-27-2022)
7-45-6: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
The video game machine license can be suspended for a ten (10) day period for
violations of the restrictions set forth in section
7-45-5 of this chapter. Any licensee hereunder who is found to be unqualified
to hold such license due to failure to comply with any of such restrictions, or
who continually violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or whose
license has been suspended for cause, as provided above, two (2) or more times,
shall be subjected to having the license revoked by the village clerk.
Upon the occurrence of any of the above, the village clerk or his or her
designated agent shall cause a notice to be sent to the licensee for a hearing
to determine cause as to whether such license should be revoked. Such hearing
shall be held within ten (10) days, but no sooner than three (3) days, from the
receipt of the notice. The notice shall set forth the nature of the hearing and
shall contain such information as is necessary to reasonably inform the
licensee of those violations for which he or she is charged, and shall further
set forth the time, date and location of such hearing. The licensee will be
given an opportunity to present testimony and evidence in his or her own behalf
as he or she deems necessary. Upon the completion of such hearing, the village
clerk shall determine whether sufficient cause has been shown which would
require the revocation of the license and shall, within five (5) days from the
date of the hearing inform the licensee, in writing, if such determination
results in revocation. (Ord. 96-02, 1-23-1996)
7-45-7: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation. (Ord. 96-02, 1-23-1996)
7-45-8: VIDEO GAMING MACHINES:
Video gaming machines are permitted to operate within the village pursuant to
the Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Only those video gaming machines, as
defined and operated pursuant to the video gaming act, are permitted to award
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. All other video game
machines operated in the village will continue to be operated pursuant to the
remainder of this chapter.
Provided further that, in the village of Posen, a "licensed establishment"
shall be limited to only those licensed retail liquor establishments where
alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption
on the premises (i.e., taverns, pubs, or bars); and those restaurants in the
village of Posen which are licensed to dispense liquor and where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises.
"Licensed fraternal establishments", "licensed veterans organizations", and
"licensed truck stop establishments", as defined by the Illinois video gaming
act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., remain eligible for video
gaming machine licenses in the village of Posen, pursuant to said Illinois
video gaming act and this code.
No other establishments, organizations, or businesses in the village of Posen
shall operate video gaming machines pursuant to the Illinois video gaming act.
In addition to the state of Illinois license requirement for said video gaming
machines, video gaming machines operating in the village must also be licensed
by the village pursuant to the remainder of this chapter; said license shall
include payment of fees as set forth in section
7-46-4 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 46
LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
7-46-1: Procedure
7-46-2: Duration
7-46-3: Payment
7-46-4: Fees
7-46-5: Activities Excluded
7-46-6: License Required; Penalties
7-46-1: PROCEDURE:
All commercial establishments with buildings or premises in the Village shall
file with the Village Clerk, or such other officer as may be designated by the
Village Clerk, an application for a license to operate the commercial
establishment in the Village no later than April 30 of each year or at such
time as the commercial establishment desires to commence operation in the
Village. Application forms for such licenses shall be made available by the
Village. (Ord., 2-3-1970)
7-46-2: DURATION:
Subject to the terms and provisions of this Code, the Village Clerk, or such
officer as may be designated by the Village Clerk, shall cause to be issued a
license to permit the operation of the commercial establishment in the Village
for a period of one license year which shall begin on May 1 of the year for
which such license is issued and shall terminate on April 30 of the next year.
No license shall be issued at the yearly rate of license fees except for the
full license year; provided, however, that where such license is issued on or
after November 1, the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the yearly license
fee for the unexpired term of the license year. (Ord., 2-3-1970)
7-46-3: PAYMENT:
The required fee for each license issued shall be collected in full at the time
of the issuance and delivery thereof. In no event shall any rebate or refund be
made of any license fee, or part thereof, by reason of the death of the
licensee or by any reason of nonuse of the license or discontinuance of the
operation of the commercial establishment. (Ord., 2-3-1970)
7-46-4: FEES:
The specific enumerated commercial establishments, business and/or commercial
enterprises or activities, except as specifically excluded in this chapter,
shall pay a yearly minimum fee for license as follows:
ADVERTISING                                   
Bench advertising (public) (each    $ 25.00    
sign)
Billposting-handbills, circular     25.00      
cards, etc.
Sign painting (business license)    25.00      
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE                            
Class A                             750.00    2:00 A.M. closing
Class B package                     750.00    per package
Class C                             500.00     
Class D                             500.00     
Special event                       50.00     for residents
                                    75.00     for non-residents
AMUSEMENTS                                    
Billiards and pool halls            15.00     each table
Carnivals                           100.00    per day
Circuses                            100.00    per day
Coin operated machines              20.00      
Coin operated music boxes (juke)    50.00      
Jukeboxes with tavern license       25.00      
Exhibitions of animated objects     100.00    per day
Menageries                          100.00    per day
Public dances                       100.00    per day
Other amusements                    50.00     per day
ANIMALS                                       
Dogs/cats                           10.00      
Pet shops, kennels and dealers in   150.00     
animals
AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS            500.00    each location
Auction clerks                      100.00     
AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES          25.00      
AUTOMOBILES                                   
Auto parts                          50.00      
Car wash                            50.00      
Paint shops                         50.00      
Parking lot                         5.00      per day
Repair shop                         50.00      
Salesroom                           35.00      
Used car dealer's lot per each      100.00     
location
Used car lots                       100.00     
Wreckers                            150.00     
BAKERIES                                      
Baker's license                     125.00     
Bakery store license                35.00      
Bakery trucks (food - sanitation    25.00     per truck
delivery)
BARBER AND BEAUTY SHOPS             10.00     per chair including beauty parlor
BEVERAGE DEALER                     25.00      
BROKERS                                       
General                             50.00      
Insurance                           25.00      
Real estate                         100.00     
CANNABIS ORGANIZATION               10,000.00  
CARTERS                                       
All truck deliveries                35.00      
CELLULAR TOWERS                     10.00     per linear foot of height with a
                                              $750.00 per year maximum
CONTRACTORS                                   
Board Up                            50,000.00 bond
Carpenter                           50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Cement or concrete                  50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Drain layer/sewer builder           50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Drywall/plasterer                   50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
Electrical                          50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Excavating                          50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
General                             150.00    plus $10,000.00 bond
Glazing                             50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
HVAC refrigeration                  50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Masonry                             50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Painting/decorating                 50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
Plumbing                            50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Roofing/insulation                  50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
Sewer/rodding/repair                50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Sheet metal                         50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Structural iron                     50.00     plus $10,000.00 bond
Tuck pointing/chimney cleaning      50.00     plus $5,000.00 bond
DANCING SCHOOLS                     50.00      
DEPARTMENT STORE                    100.00     
DRY GOODS STORE                               
Wearing apparel                     50.00      
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE, RADIO AND TV  50.00      
FILLING STATIONS                    75.00     per year plus $10.00 per pump
FLORIST                             25.00      
FOOD DELIVERY (SANITARY)            25.00     per truck
FOOD DISPENSERS                               
Bakery goods                        50.00     year
Cafeterias                          50.00     year
Caterers                            50.00     year
Coffeehouses                        50.00     year
Confectionery store                 50.00     year
Delicatessen stores                 50.00      
Fish market                         50.00     year
Fruit store                         50.00     year
Grocery stores                      50.00      
Ice cream parlors                   50.00     year
Industrial plants serving food      50.00     year
Lunch stands                        50.00     year
Lunchrooms                          50.00     year
Meat markets                        50.00      
Restaurants                         50.00      
Retail beverage store               50.00     year
Retail drugstores serving lunch     50.00     year
FUEL OIL STORAGE STATION            100.00    year
FURNITURE                           125.00    year
GARAGES                                       
Parking lots, repair shop, paint    50.00     year
shop, private, public
GREENHOUSES - NURSERIES             50.00     year
HARDWARE STORE AND PAINT            50.00     year
JUNK RECYCLE                        100.00    per year
JUNKYARD (Only) (1 limit)           200.00    year
LANDSCAPING                         50.00     per year
LAUNDRIES                                     
Laundry license                     50.00      
Cleaners and dyers                  5.00      per machine
Launderettes (self-service)                   
Dry cleaning agency, dry cleaning             
on premises
LAWN CARE SERVICES                  50.00     per year
MANUFACTURER'S MACHINE SHOPS        75.00      
MILK                                          
Distributor plant or receiving      75.00      
station
Trucks (see Trucks)                 65.00      
MOTOR REPAIR SHOP                   50.00     per year
MOTOR VEHICLES                                
(A) For each motorcycle, motor bicycle, motor scooter, motor tricycle or other
self-propelled three (3) or less wheeled vehicle containing in the tanks
thereof volatile inflammable liquid for fuel and power used for driving upon
the thoroughfares of the Village, the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00), provided
said license fee is paid on or before May 1 of the calendar year for which the
aforesaid license is required.
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be forty five dollars ($45.00).
(B) For each motor vehicle which is designed and used for the carrying of not
more than seven (7) persons, provided said license fee is paid on or before May
1 of the calendar year for which the aforesaid license is required, the sum of
thirty dollars ($30.00).
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be sixty dollars ($60.00).
However, in the event the applicant for a license to operate a motor vehicle
which is designed for the carrying of not more than seven (7) persons shall
have attained the age of sixty five (65) years on or before January 1 in the
calendar year for which the aforesaid license is required, the cost for such
license shall be the sum of two dollars ($2.00); provided, said two dollar
($2.00) payment is remitted prior to May 1 of said calendar year. There shall
be a limit of one (1) senior vehicle per household/family. The license shall be
issued to any applicant or his or her spouse. In the event payment of said
license fee is remitted after May 1, the license fee shall be thirty two
dollars ($32.00).
(C) For each motor vehicle which is designed and used for pulling and carrying
freight and each motor vehicle which is designed and used for carrying more
than seven (7) persons:
1. Having a gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less, including
the weight of the vehicle and maximum load, provided said license fee is paid
on or before May 1 of the calendar year for which the aforesaid license is
required, the sum of forty dollars ($40.00).
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be seventy dollars ($70.00).
2. Having a gross weight, including the vehicle and maximum load of eight
thousand one (8,001) to twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, provided said license
fee is paid on or before May 1 of the calendar year for which the aforesaid
license is required, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00).
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be eighty dollars ($80.00).
3. Having a gross weight, including the vehicle and maximum load of twelve
thousand one (12,001) to twenty four thousand (24,000) pounds, provided said
license fee is paid on or before May 1 of the calendar year for which the
aforesaid license is required, the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00).
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be ninety dollars ($90.00).
4. Having a gross weight, including the vehicle and maximum load of over twenty
four thousand (24,000) pounds, provided said license fee is paid on or before
May 1 of the calendar year for which the aforesaid license is required, the sum
of seventy dollars ($70.00).
However, in the event the payment is remitted after May 1, the license fee
aforesaid shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(D) For each motor vehicle licensed by a new car dealer, as defined in chapter
8A of this title, the sum of:
1. For the first vehicle            $20.00     
2. For each additional vehicle      10.00      
MUSIC STORE                         50.00     per year
NOVELTY AND GIFT SHOPS              50.00     per year
OPTICAL STORE                       50.00     per year
PAINT STORES (SEPARATE)             50.00     per year
PHOTOGRAPHERS                                 
Studio                              50.00     per year
PLUMBING AND SUPPLY HOUSES          50.00      
PRINTING SHOPS                      50.00     per year plus square footage
RAILROAD YARD WITH OFFICE           75.00     per year
SCAVENGER (PRIVATE)                 50.00     per year
SECONDHAND DEALERS                  250.00    per year
SIGNS AND AWNINGS                             
100 square feet both sides, no
lights, 100 square feet both sides,
lights; with business, with lights, See section
more than 100 feet both sides,      6-7-4 of this code for fees
canopies, canopies with signs
attached, flexible awnings
STORAGE PLANTS OR STORAGE BUILDINGS 50.00     per year
TAVERNS                                       
See Alcoholic Beverage                        
TAXICABS                                      
See Motor Vehicles                  100.00    per year
TIRE REPAIR SHOP                    50.00     per year plus square footage
TOBACCO DEALERS                               
Each establishment or machine       50.00     each machine
Wholesale                                     
TRUCKS                                        
Wholesale                           50.00     per year
Oil delivery (out of town trucks)   25.00     per year
Sanitary deliveries                 25.00     per truck
Milk                                25.00     per year
Bakery (out of town)                25.00     per year
UNDERTAKERS                         50.00     per year
VIDEO GAMING MACHINES                         
As defined by 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. 500.00    per year for each machine
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL OPERATOR’S  1,000.00  per year
FEES
WHOLESALES                                    
Fruits and vegetables               50.00     per year
 
The above enumerated minimum license fee schedule as it relates and pertains to
commercial establishments having floor area as herein defined, shall be
applicable only to those commercial establishments, business and/or commercial
enterprises or activities having a floor area of zero to one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet, and the above enumerated commercial
establishments, business and/or commercial establishments, business and/or
commercial enterprises or activities having a floor area in excess of one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet shall be determined in accordance
with the license fee schedule hereinafter set forth.
The above enumerated minimum license fee schedule shall not be construed to be
all inclusive, and all other commercial establishments, business and/or
commercial enterprises not specifically enumerated herein, and having floor
area as herein defined shall pay a yearly license fee in accordance with the
schedule hereinafter set forth:
Classification Step Floor In Square Feet  Yearly License Fee
Classification         Step Floor In Square Feet   Yearly License Fee
Food, service or sales 1    0 to 1,500            $50.00
establishments
                      2    1,501 to 3,000        55.00
                      3    3,001 to 6,000        65.00
                      4    6,001 to 9,000        80.00
                      5    9,001 to 12,000       95.00
                      6    12,001 to 15,000      110.00
                      7    15,001 to 20,000      135.00
                      8    20,001 to 30,000      160.00
                      9    30,001 to 40,000      185.00
                      10   Over 40,000           250.00
 
   Floor area shall be calculated as herein defined. Total floor area
applicable for the determination of the yearly license fee shall include the
sum total of all the floor area in use or reserved for or retained for the use
of the commercial establishment, including, but not restricted to, principal
and accessory floor area, cellars and basements, even though any such floor
area may be temporarily vacant or not in use.
   Should the operation and management of a commercial establishment in one
location by the same owner or person involve the operation of two (2) or more
connected commercial establishment classifications as herein defined either by
principal or accessory use, then and in that event a yearly license fee shall
be required as follows:
   (A)   For commercial establishments with a total floor area under three
thousand (3,000) square feet:
      1.   The commercial establishment classification which occupies the
greatest floor area shall be the classification under which the yearly license
fee shall be determined and required based on the total floor area of the
commercial establishment.
      2.   If two (2) or more commercial establishment classifications are
determined to be the classifications occupying the greatest floor area with
equal floor areas, the classification under which the yearly license fee shall
be determined and required based on the total floor area of the commercial
establishment shall be as follows:
         (a)   If the aforesaid and described classifications include a food
establishment then the food establishment fees shall apply for the total floor
area.
         (b)   If the aforesaid and described classifications include a service
establishment but not a food establishment, then the service establishment fee
shall apply for the total floor area.
   (B)   For commercial establishments with a total floor area of three
thousand (3,000) square feet or more, each commercial establishment
classification occupying one thousand five hundred (1,500) or more square feet
shall be required to purchase a separate yearly license in accordance with the
schedule of yearly license fees as set forth herein for the total floor area
specifically occupied by the particular commercial establishment
classification; provided, however, as follows:
      1.   If one of the aforesaid and described classifications is a service
establishment with the food establishment total floor area, if any, under one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet then the service establishment fees
shall apply for the total floor area of the service establishment and to
include the total remaining floor area of all other commercial establishment
classifications and accessory uses occupying individually less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of total floor area. (Ord. 86-6, 4-8-
1986; amd. Ord. 93-15, 7-14-1993; Ord. 2002-16, 9-24-2002; Ord. 2009-14, 9-7-
2009; Ord. 2012-08, 5-22-2012; Ord. 2012-09, 6-12-2012; Ord. 2014-02, 1-14-
2014; Ord. 2014-03, 2-11-2014; Ord. 2017-01, 2-14-2017; Ord. 2017-08, 7-11-
2017; Ord. 2017-19, 10-10-2017; Ord. 2018-12, 7-24-2018; Ord. 2020-07, 2-25-
2020 ; Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020 )
7-46-5: ACTIVITIES EXCLUDED:
   The terms and provisions of this chapter shall not be made applicable to a
building or premises or portion thereof, the principal use of which for the
practice of medicine or dentistry or similar type of medical professional
personal services, the practice of law, financial institution, the operation of
general office activities; provided, however, such activities shall be subject
to the terms and provisions of this chapter when accessory to the operation of
commercial establishments as herein defined. The terms and provisions of this
chapter shall not be made applicable to any activity carried on or operated by
a governmental institution or jurisdiction or by any eleemosynary institution
or organization or person or owner. (Ord. 86-6, 4-8-1986)
7-46-6: LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTIES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of a commercial establishment, business and/or commercial enterprise
or activities as herein enumerated, as otherwise provided herein without having
first obtained a license therefor.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), for each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 86-6, 4-8-1986)
CHAPTER 47
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
7-47-1: Garage Sale Requirements
7-47-2: Removal Of Signs Advertising A Garage Sale
7-47-1: GARAGE SALE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term "garage sale" shall mean the
selling of household furnishings, furniture, fixtures and/or clothing which are
owned by a Village resident and which are being sold by that same resident from
that same resident's home, yard and/or garage.
   (B)   No commercial license, as provided in this title, shall be required of
a resident for a garage sale, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No resident shall conduct a garage sale until the resident has made
an application to the Village Clerk for such a garage sale, the resident has
paid a ten dollar ($10.00) fee to the Village for such application and the
application has been approved by the Village President or his or her designee.
Such application shall be submitted to the Village Clerk not less than ten (10)
business days before the first day upon which the garage sale is scheduled to
be conducted. All such applications shall be made on a form provided by the
Village and shall, at a minimum, require the applicant to provide the following
information: the name and residence address of the person conducting the garage
sale; the address of the property where the garage sale will be conducted; the
dates and times during which the garage sale will be conducted; the locations
of all signs advertising the garage sale; such other reasonable information as
the Village finds necessary to evaluate the application.
      2.   No resident shall conduct a garage sale other than during the hours
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 2008-13,
7-8-2008)
      3.   No resident shall conduct more than three (3) garage sales during
any calendar year.
      4.   No resident shall conduct more than two (2) garage sales during any
six (6) month period. (Ord. 2018-14, 7-24-2018)
      5.   No resident shall conduct a garage sale for more than two (2)
consecutive days.
      6.   No resident shall use more than eight (8) signs to advertise the
garage sale.
   (C)   Any sales which do not comply with the provisions of this section
shall require compliance with the licensing provisions of this title, the
regulations of the Village's Zoning Code and all other applicable ordinances
and other legal requirements, including, without limitation, all applicable fee
requirements. (Ord. 2008-13, 7-8-2008)
7-47-2: REMOVAL OF SIGNS ADVERTISING A GARAGE SALE:
A resident conducting a garage sale shall remove all signs advertising that
garage sale within twenty four (24) hours after the conclusion of the garage
sale. A resident who does not comply with the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each such sign that
the resident fails to remove within said twenty four (24) hour period. A
separate and distinct offense shall be deemed to have occurred during each
twenty four (24) hour period thereafter for each such sign that the resident
fails to remove. (Ord. 2008-13, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 48
BANNING OF TOBACCO ADVERTISING DIRECTED AT MINORS
SECTION:
7-48-1: Definitions
7-48-2: Tobacco Advertising Restrictions
7-48-3: Exceptions To Tobacco Advertising Restrictions
7-48-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADVERTISING: Any printed matter or thing that calls for the public's attention
for things for sale.
EYE LEVEL: At a height of four feet (4') or below or atop of any countertop or
table of similar height.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, tobacco cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco
and dipping tobacco. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
7-48-2: TOBACCO ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS:
Except as expressly set forth in section
7-48-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, business or
supplier of tobacco to place, maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained,
any advertising or promotion of tobacco products at eye level of minors or at a
level of four feet (4') or lower. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
7-48-3: EXCEPTIONS TO TOBACCO ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   The restrictions in this chapter shall not apply to signs that contain
a generic description of tobacco products without logos, brand names or
graphics.
   (B)   The restrictions in this chapter shall not apply to commercial
establishments where access to the premises by persons under the age of
eighteen (18) years of age is prohibited by law.
   (C)   The restrictions in this chapter shall not apply to displays located
behind a counter and not visible or accessible to minors. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-
2006)
CHAPTER 49
CONFLICTS WITH CERTAIN HOME RULE ORDINANCES OF COOK COUNTY
SECTION:
7-49-1: Paid Sick Leave; Minimum Wages
7-49-1: PAID SICK LEAVE; MINIMUM WAGES:
   (A)   Compliance: Employers located within the Village shall comply with all
applicable Federal and/or State laws and regulations as such laws and
regulations may exist from time to time with regard to both the payment of
minimum hourly wages and paid sick leave and employees eligibility for paid
sick leave and minimum hourly wages shall also be in compliance with all
applicable Federal and/or State laws and regulations as such laws and
regulations may exist from time to time.
   (B)   Additional Obligations: No additional obligations with regard to paid
sick leave, or minimum hourly wages, including, without limitation, any
additional obligations by ordinance adopted by the County of Cook Board of
Commissioners, shall apply to employers located within the Village, except
those required by Federal and/or State laws and regulations as such laws and
regulations may exist from time to time.
   (C)   Definitions:
      1.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "employee" means any
individual person permitted and/or hired to work by an employer regardless of
the number of persons the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any
person, firm or corporation employing one (1) or more employees, or seeking to
employ one (1) or more employees, if the employer has its principal place of
business within the Village or does business within the Village.
      2.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "employer" does not mean
or include:
         (a)   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly
owned by the government of the United States;
         (b)   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian
tribe; or
         (c)   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof.
      3.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "Village" shall refer to
the Village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-03, 6-13-2017)
TITLE VIII
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of
8-1-2: Assault
8-1-3: Assembly, Unlawful
8-1-4: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
8-1-5: Battery
8-1-6: Birds; Injury To
8-1-7: Burglar Tools
8-1-8: Cigarettes Or Tobacco Sales To Minors
8-1-9: Cohabitation, Lewd (Rep. by Ord. 2021-15, 8-24-2021)
8-1-10: Collecting Crowds
8-1-11: Concealing Knowledge
8-1-12: Contraceptives; Sale Of
8-1-13: Cruelty
8-1-14: Delinquency, Encouraging
8-1-15: Disorderly Conduct
8-1-16: Disturbing The Peace
8-1-17: Public Intoxication And Possession Of Open Containers Of Alcohol
8-1-18: Escape, Aid In
8-1-19: Escapes
8-1-20: Expectorating On Sidewalk Or In Public Buildings
8-1-21: False Pretenses
8-1-22: False Representation
8-1-23: General Offense
8-1-24: Hypnotists Prohibited
8-1-25: Indecent Exposure
8-1-26: Injurious Material On Thoroughfares, Deposits Of
8-1-27: Junk, Keeping Of Restricted; Junk Dealers Prohibited
8-1-28: Letting Premises For Unlawful Purposes
8-1-29: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
8-1-30: Lug Wheels Prohibited
8-1-31: Mufflers; Unnecessary Noise
8-1-32: Obscenity
8-1-33: Obscene Literature, Distribution Of
8-1-34: Offense, Aid To An
8-1-35: Petit Theft
8-1-36: Playing Ball On Streets Prohibited
8-1-37: Picketing
8-1-38: Picnics
8-1-39: Police Officers, Assistance To
8-1-40: Posting Bills
8-1-41: Property, Malicious Injury To
8-1-42: Prostitution
8-1-43: Prostitution, House Of
8-1-44: Resisting An Officer
8-1-45: Riot
8-1-46: Swindling
8-1-47: Trespassing
8-1-48: Vagrancy
8-1-49: Venereal Diseases; Literature Concerning
8-1-50: Water Flowing Upon Streets
8-1-51: Weapons, Furnishing To Prisoners
8-1-52: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
8-1-53: Curfew For Children
8-1-54: Loitering Prohibited
8-1-55: Keeping Of Three Dogs And/Or Cats
8-1-56: Vandalism Prohibited; Parental Responsibility
8-1-57: Injuring, Damaging Or Defacing Public Or Private Property
8-1-58: Truancy
8-1-59: Graffiti
8-1-60: Repair Of Vehicles On Public Property
8-1-61: Possession Of Cannabis
8-1-1: ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of a
police officer engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of
public entertainment or amusement. (1965 Code)
8-1-2: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "assault" which is hereby defined
as any conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery. (1965 Code)
8-1-3: ASSEMBLY, UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act. (1965 Code)
8-1-4: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence or
any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire or to use barbed wire
as a guard to any parking lot, stairway, entrance to a building or parcel of
land. (1965 Code)
8-1-5: BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A person commits battery
if he intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any means
causes bodily harm to an individual or makes physical contact of an insulting
or provoking nature with an individual. (1965 Code)
8-1-6: BIRDS; INJURY TO:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound, or attempt to kill or
wound, by use of a firearm, slingshot, bow and arrow or otherwise, or to take
the eggs or young of any bird. (1965 Code)
8-1-7: BURGLAR TOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession any nippers of
any description known as burglar's nippers, pick-lock, skeleton key, jimmy or
other burglar's instrument or tool of any description, unless it be shown that
the possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose. (1965 Code)
8-1-8: CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO SALES TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years any
cigarettes, tobacco, or any compounds of tobacco used in the filling up or
making up of a cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers, to minors.
This also includes the sale of e-cigarettes and vape. (Ord. 2019-11, 5-28-2019)
8-1-9: COHABITATION, LEWD:
(Rep. by Ord. 2021-15, 8-24-2021)
8-1-10: COLLECTING CROWDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to collect within the Village a crowd of
people to the annoyance of the citizens thereof or to the annoyance or injury
of the public. (1965 Code)
8-1-11: CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission of
any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
Code. (1965 Code)
8-1-12: CONTRACEPTIVES; SALE OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, distribute or give away in
any manner whatsoever any article, drug or medicinal preparation, manufactured,
produced or intended for use, or which may be used as a contraceptive;
provided, however, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to regularly
licensed practitioners of medicine or drug stores employing a registered
pharmacist.
It shall be unlawful to vend, sell, give away or distribute any such articles,
drugs or medicines for use as, or possible for use as, contraceptives, by means
of machines, or by peddling or canvassing within the Village. The proprietor of
any premises wherein any such drugs, medicines, or articles are kept, contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be presumed to be the vendor or
distributor of the medicines, drugs or articles. (1965 Code)
8-1-13: CRUELTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly or inhumanely whip, injure, beat
or mistreat his own wife, child, stepchild, ward or apprentice, or other child
under his care. (1965 Code)
8-1-14: DELINQUENCY, ENCOURAGING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid
or cause a child to come within the proper supervision of the legal
authorities; and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice
that a driver's license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit
such child to operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver's
license is suspended or revoked. (1965 Code)
8-1-15: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting, or immoral conduct or behavior. (1965 Code)
8-1-16: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily, disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood or
family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises or
indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(1965 Code)
8-1-17: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition on or in
any street, alley, or other public property or on or in any private property
that is accessible to the public and to which the general public is invited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or consume any
alcoholic liquor other than in the original container and with the seal
unbroken on any public property or on or in any private property that is
accessible to the public and to which the general public is invited, unless
such public area is a permitted area under the terms of a Village-issued liquor
license or Village-sanctioned event where the possession of such alcoholic
liquor is allowed. (Ord. 2017-02, 3-14-2017)
8-1-18: ESCAPE, AID IN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape from
lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the custody of any
Peace Officer. (1965 Code)
8-1-19: ESCAPES:
It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody. (1965 Code)
8-1-20: EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALK OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk or
upon the floor of, or in, any public building or room used for public
assemblies or in public vehicles. (1965 Code)
8-1-21: FALSE PRETENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise. (1965 Code)
8-1-22: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely to be an officer of
the Village or attempt to impersonate any such officer or, without authority,
perform any official act therein on behalf of said officer. (1965 Code)
8-1-23: GENERAL OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by State law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to Village government. (1965 Code)
8-1-24: HYPNOTISTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to practice hypnotism or for any person to
be a subject for such hypnotist; provided, that this section shall not apply to
hypnotism as used in the treatment of patients by a licensed doctor of medicine
or doctor of dentistry and shall not prohibit the teaching of hypnotism in any
State accredited educational institution which maintains an academic standard
of the college level. (1965 Code)
8-1-25: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place; or, in any such place,
to make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof or
the private parts of another; or to conduct himself in a lewd or lascivious
manner. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2021-14, 8-24-2021)
8-1-26: INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES, DEPOSITS OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person or
property, without an appropriate permit therefor. (1965 Code)
8-1-27: JUNK, KEEPING OF RESTRICTED; JUNK DEALERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials, including, but not limited to, automobiles in a state of disrepair,
unsightliness or uncleanliness and which may be described as junk, adjacent to
or in close proximity to any schoolhouse, church, public parks, public grounds,
business buildings or residences without first providing proper tight buildings
for the storage of the same.
It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer to rummage through any items placed
for collection by the Village's refuse collector. Under its home rule powers,
the Village hereby prohibits the collection, obtaining, or procuring of any
items set out for collection by the Village's refuse collector. (Ord. 2010-11,
12-14-2010)
8-1-28: LETTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered or for any unlawful purpose. (1965 Code)
8-1-29: LOUD SPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loud speaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (1965 Code)
8-1-30: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (1965 Code)
8-1-31: MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall not
at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and it shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a
cutout, bypass or similar muffler elimination appliance. (1965 Code)
8-1-32: OBSCENITY:
   (A)   Obscene Defined: As used in this section, material is "obscene" when:
      1.   It depicts or describes any of the following types of sexual
conduct:
         (a)   Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   Excretory functions; or
         (d)   Lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
      2.   To the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest in sex; and
      3.   The material is patently offensive because it affronts contemporary
community standards in its description or representation of the sexual conduct;
and
      4.   The material, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   (B)   Actions Constituting Obscenity Enumerated: A person commits obscenity
when, with knowledge of the nature of contents thereof, or recklessly failing
to exercise reasonable inspection which would disclose the nature of contents
thereof:
      1.   He sells within the Village of Posen, any obscene book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, phonograph record,
film strip or slide.
      2.   He offers or attempts to sell within the Village of Posen, any
obscene book magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture
film, phonograph record, film strip or slide.
      3.   He distributes or gives away within the Village of Posen, any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, film strip or
slide.
      4.   He offers to or attempts to give away within the Village of Posen
any obscene book magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture
film, phonograph record, film strip or slide.
      5.   He prints or publishes within the Village of Posen, any obscene book
magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, film strip
or slide.
      6.   He exhibits or shows within the Village of Posen, any obscene
photograph, drawing, motion picture, film strip or slide.
      7.   He produces, directs, or plays a part within the Village of Posen in
any obscene play.
      8.   He advertises for sale within the Village of Posen, any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, motion picture film, phonograph
record, film strip or slide.
      9.   He advertises for viewing within the Village of Posen, any obscene
motion picture, play; film strip or slide.
      10.   He publicly performs an obscene act or otherwise publicly presents
an obscene exhibition of his body within the Village of Posen.
      11.   He buys or produces in the Village of Posen, for resale in the
Village of Posen, any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph,
motion picture film, film strip, slide or phonograph record.
      12.   He buys, leases or procures in the Village of Posen, for showing in
the Village of Posen for gain, any obscene motion picture, film strip or slide.
(Ord. dated 3-23-76)
8-1-33: OBSCENE LITERATURE, DISTRIBUTION OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, give, or deliver to
another any obscene, lewd or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print,
paper, writing, mold, cast, or figure or to have same in his possession.
8-1-34: OFFENSE, AID TO AN:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
8-1-35: PETIT THEFT:
It shall be, unlawful for any person to commit petit theft which is hereby
defined as theft when the property taken is of a value of less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
8-1-36: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro
upon any public thoroughfare in the Village.
8-1-37: PICKETING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not an employee, past, present or
expectant, of the owner or proprietor of the business attempted to be picketed
or who has no personal dispute with the owner or proprietor concerning terms
and conditions of employment, to stand, sit or walk on any street, public
property or sidewalk in the Village with the intent or purpose of dissuading or
discouraging any person from patronizing the place of business.
8-1-38: PICNICS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used, any yard,
ground or grave or other real estate within the Village for public picnics or
open air dances in such manner as to be an annoyance or injurious to the
public.
8-1-39: POLICE OFFICERS, ASSISTANCE TO:
It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of eighteen (18) years
to refuse or neglect to render assistance or aid to any Police Officer when
called upon for such assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other
unlawful assemblage or in the arrest of any person.
8-1-40: POSTING BILLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any public
property, curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or
upon any tree, lamppost, hitchpost, telegraph pole, hydrant or upon any private
wall, door or gate, without the consent in writing of the owner of the wall,
door or gate; provided, however, that this Section shall not prevent posting by
proper Village and County officials of election signs, polling place signs and
other signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections.
8-1-41: PROPERTY, MALICIOUS INJURY TO:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to injure, deface,
mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or molest or
secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or under the
control of any person.
8-1-42: PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or advertise in any manner her
vocation as a prostitute or for any person to advertise the profession of a
prostitute or solicit for a prostitute.
8-1-43: PROSTITUTION, HOUSE OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or assist in the keeping of a house
of ill-fame or prostitution or knowingly to reside therein or knowingly to
rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased or
controlled by him for this purpose.
8-1-44: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally interfere with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any Officer of the Municipality
in the exercise of his official duties.
8-1-45: RIOT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse immediately to disperse
upon an order to do so by a Police Officer, when two (2) or more persons are
assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act.
8-1-46: SWINDLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person by use of aid of any trick or sleight-of-
hand performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice or device,
to win for himself or for another any money or property. (1965 Code)
8-1-47: TRESPASSING:
   (A)   Trespassing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within this Village upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of Section
8-1-47(A) hereof, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of said Section
8-1-47(A), and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from
time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
Section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   Any entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 70-13, 6-23-70)
8-1-48: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person without visible means of support and the
physical ability to work not to seek employment or labor, or to refuse to work
when employment is offered him; for any person to seek alms as a business; for
any person, to roam about from place to place without any lawful business; for
any idle or dissolute person or associate of known thieves to wander about the
streets at a late and unusual hour of the night, or to lodge in any other place
than is kept for lodging purposes without the permission of the owner of the
property or the person in possession thereof; or for any person to consort
habitually with common prostitutes, habitual drunkards or any user of
narcotics.
8-1-49: VENEREAL DISEASES; LITERATURE CONCERNING:
No person shall offer to sell, or give away, distribute or have in his
possession with intent to give away, sell or distribute, any book, pamphlet,
circular, handbill, or advertisement of any kind purporting to treat diseases
known as "Venereal Diseases", describing or explaining the genital organs,
giving the nature and remedies of diseases peculiar to females, or the nature
or causes of nervous debility, impotency, sterility or barrenness, gonorrhea,
gleet, stricture, syphilis, infection of the prostate gland or the remedies
therefor, or the cause or remedies for abortion or miscarriage, or articles or
means of preventing conception.
No person shall sell, give, distribute or have in his possession, with intent
to give away, sell or distribute any book, pamphlet, circular, handbill,
advertisement or notice of any kind, giving or purporting to give information
from whom or where medicine or any thing whatever may be obtained for the cure,
prevention or treatment of uterine diseases, or diseases peculiar to females,
venereal diseases, or diseases of the genital organs, or nervous debility,
impotency, sterility or barrenness, gonorrhea, gleet, stricture, syphilis,
infection of the prostate gland, abortion or miscarriage, or articles or means
of preventing conception.
8-1-50: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare.
8-1-51: WEAPONS, FURNISHING TO PRISONERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take
into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined,
or in the custody of any Officer any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug
or other article without the consent of the Officer in charge.
8-1-52: WINDOW SILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any window sill, porch
or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or
protected by screens. (1965 Code)
8-1-53: CURFEW FOR CHILDREN:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be
present at, or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway, in
the Village between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. Saturday and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday, or between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any other day of the week, unless
accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible
companion at least twenty one (21) years of age approved by a parent or legal
guardian, or unless engaged in some occupation or business in which such child
may lawfully engage under the Statutes of this State.
Any police officer finding a child violating the provisions of this Section
shall warn the child to desist immediately from such violation and shall
promptly report the violation to his superior officer who shall cause a written
notice to be served upon the parent, guardian, or person in charge of such
child, setting forth the manner in which this Section has been violated. It
shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person in charge of such child
to knowingly permit such child again to violate the provisions of this Section
after receiving notice of the first violation. (9-68)
8-1-54: LOITERING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this Section, "loitering" shall mean remaining
idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending
time idly; loafing, or walking about aimlessly, and shall also include the
colloquial expression "hanging around".
   (B)   Certain types of loitering prohibited: No person shall loiter in a
public place in such manner as to:
      1.   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
      2.   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
      3.   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      4.   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any public
place.
This paragraph shall include the making of unsolicited remarks of any
offensive, disgusting, or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or
disturb the person to, or in whose hearing, they are made.
   (C)   Request to leave: Whenever the presence of any person in any public
place is causing or is likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated in (B)
above, any police officer may order that person to leave that place. Any person
who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer
shall be guilty of a violation of this Section. (Ord. 75-7, 9-9-75)
8-1-55: KEEPING OF THREE DOGS AND/OR CATS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To harbor a total of more than three (3) dogs and/or cats within any
house, apartment, dwelling unit and/or building located or maintained in any
single family or two family, apartment, residential zoning district as defined
and stated in the applicable sections of the Zoning Ordinance and relevant
provisions of the Posen Village Code; and/or
   (B)   To keep a total of more than three (3) dogs and/or cats within or upon
any lot located in any single family or two family, apartment, residential
zoning district as defined and stated in the applicable sections of the Zoning
Ordinance and relevant provisions of the Posen Village Code. (Ord. 76-15, 3-23-
76)
8-1-56: VANDALISM PROHIBITED; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this Section the following
definitions shall apply:
      1.   "Person" shall include any individual, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      2.   "Property" shall include any real estate including improvements
thereon, and tangible personalty.
      3.   "Parent" shall include the lawful father or mother of a minor child,
whether by birth or adoption.
      4.   "Legal guardian" shall include a person appointed guardian of the
person, or given custody of a minor by a circuit court of this State or any
other state, but does not include a person appointed guardian only of the
estate of a minor, or appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under the
Illinois Juvenile Court Act.
      5.   "Minor" shall include a person who is above the age of eleven (11)
years, but not yet eighteen (18) years of age.
      6.   "Vandalism" shall include any of the following acts:
         (a)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly damage, deface or destroy
any property of another person without his consent; or
         (b)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly by means of fire or
explosive device damage, deface, or destroy any property of another person; or
         (c)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly start a fire on the land
of another person without his consent; or
         (d)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly deposit on the land or in
a building of another person, without his consent, any stink bomb, or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfere with the use and occupancy by
another of the land or building; or
         (e)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly and without authority
enter into any building, house trailer, motor vehicle, aircraft or watercraft
or any part thereof of another person without his consent.
      7.   "Sufferance of an act of vandalism" shall mean the failure to
interfere, prohibit and prevent the commission of an act of vandalism by a
minor.
   (B)   Vandalism Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit
any act of vandalism upon either public or private property within the village
of Posen. Each separate act of vandalism shall be considered as a separate
violation of this section.
   (C)   Sufferance Of Acts Of Vandalism By Minors Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with such parent or legal guardian to suffer such minor to commit an act of
vandalism upon either public or private property within the village of Posen.
Each separate act of vandalism shall be considered as a separate violation of
this section. (Ord. 76-21, 11-23-1976)
8-1-57: INJURING, DAMAGING OR DEFACING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   (A)   No person shall injure or damage any sign, signpost, structure or
property owned by the village by any unusual, improper or unreasonable use
thereof; or by careless driving or use of any vehicle thereon; or by
mutilation, defacing or destruction thereof.
   (B)   No person shall negligently injure, destroy or deface any bridge,
crossing, sidewalk, lamppost, tree, shrub, plant or other property of the
village.
   (C)   No person shall write, print or paint, with chalk, ink, paint, marker
or any other material, any obscene word, language, or expressing upon any
building, fence, wall, sidewalk or other place, or draw or paint on the same
any picture or representation of anything of an obscene character.
   (D)   No person shall wilfully destroy, injure or deface any engine or other
fire apparatus belonging to the village. (Ord. 86-5, 3-11-1986)
8-1-58: TRUANCY:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivatives shall have the following meanings:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Shall include any foster parent, or person appointed
guardian, or otherwise awarded custody, of a minor by a court of this state or
any other state, or any person, appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
under the Illinois juvenile court act, but shall not include any person
appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor.
   PARENT: Shall include the father and mother of a child whether by birth or
adoption. In the event that the minor's parents are divorced or separated
within the meaning of the Illinois marriage and dissolution of marriage act,
the parent having lawful physical custody of the minor shall be deemed to be
the parent authorized to give consent as required by this section.
   VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE: Illness, observance of a religious holiday, death
in the immediate family, family emergency and other situations beyond the
control of the minor as determined by the board of education or its lawful
agents in each district or such other circumstances which cause reasonable
concern to the parent for the health or safety of the minor.
   (B)   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18), enrolled in a public or private or parochial school within
the corporate limits of the village of Posen, to be absent from attendance at
school without the permission of his or her legal guardian or parent having
lawful physical custody or by the school in which the minor is enrolled. Any
person who shall be absent shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and shall
be subject to the penalties set forth in this section. Emergency or unforeseen
absences due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the person absent
from school without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if
permission for such absences has been obtained from the guardian or parent with
lawful physical custody, provided that such permission is submitted in writing
to the proper school authorities within twenty four (24) hours of the next
school day after such absence.
   (C)   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to permit his or her minor child or ward to violate this section.
   (D)   Penalty:
      1.   The first incident of truancy shall be handled according to the
policies and procedures of the school and by the school authorities in which
the minor is enrolled. The incident shall be documented and retained by the
school district to be supplied to the court at any subsequent hearings for
further violations of this section.
      2.   Any subsequent violations will result in the minor and/or the parent
or legal guardian being appropriately cited and brought before the court.
Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00), but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation. In
addition to, or in lieu of, the penalties set forth in this subsection (D)2 the
violator may be required by the court to serve a period of community service as
described in subsection (D)3 of this section.
      3.   Any person that shall violate any of the provisions of this section
may be required, in lieu of a fine, to perform a period of community service
not to exceed seventy two (72) hours per violation. Community service may
consist of manual labor assigned by the village to be done in the village or
any cause or project that the village may deem suitable to help cause a
positive behavior change. Such community service shall not be scheduled during
school hours on days when students are required to be in attendance in school.
(Ord. 2002-22, 11-12-2002)
8-1-59: GRAFFITI:
   (A)   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words, terms and
phrases and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater than
one-fourth (1/4) of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is
not water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade
substance.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Includes a person appointed guardian or given custody of a
minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
   MINOR: A person who was not attained the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The lawful mother or father of a minor.
   (B)   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to possess any graffiti implement on any public or private
property without the prior written consent of the owner of such property;
provided that a person under the age of eighteen (18) may possess a graffiti
implement while traveling on a public right of way if that person has written
consent of that person's parent or legal guardian. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to the possession of broad tipped markers by a minor
attending or traveling to or from a school at which the minor is enrolled if
the minor is participating in a class at the school that formally requires the
possession of broad tipped markers.
   (C)   Accessibility To Graffiti Implements:
      1.   Furnishing To Minor Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell, exchange, give, loan or otherwise furnish or cause to permit to be
exchanged, given, loaned or otherwise furnished any graffiti implement to any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the written consent of that
person's parent or guardian; provided that this subsection (C)1 shall not apply
when a graffiti implement is sold, exchanged, given, loaned or otherwise
furnished to a person under the age of eighteen (18) years by that person's
parent or guardian.
      2.   Display And Storage: Every person who owns, conducts, operates or
manages an establishment which sells, exchanges, gives, loans or otherwise
furnishes graffiti implements shall either:
         (a)   Store those graffiti implements in an area continuously
observable through direct visual observations or surveillance equipment by
employees of the establishment during the regular course of business; or
         (b)   In the event that an establishment which sells, exchanges,
gives, loans or otherwise furnishes graffiti implements is unable to store
those graffiti implements in an area as provided above, the establishment shall
store the graffiti implements in an area not accessible to the public in the
regular course of business without employee assistance.
The provisions of this subsection (C)2 shall not apply to persons who own,
conduct, operate, or manage an establishment which sells, exchanges, gives,
loans or otherwise furnishes broad tipped markers.
      3.   Signage Required: Every person who operates a retail commercial
establishment selling graffiti implements shall place a sign in clear public
view at or near the display of such products stating:
Graffiti is against the law. Any person guilty of defacing property with paint
or any other liquid or device may be subject to a fine not less than Two
Hundred Dollars ($200.00).
   (D)   Duty To Remove Graffiti: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
or occupier of real estate to remove or cover graffiti on premises owned or
occupied by such person within ten (10) days of receipt of notice from the
village of Posen that such graffiti exists and should be removed or covered.
   (E)   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. Every day such violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      2.   In the event that any person or entity holding a business license
issued by the village of Posen is determined to be guilty of two (2) or more
violations of this section, the village of Posen may revoke that person's or
entity's village of Posen business license. Such revocation shall be grounds
for the village of Posen's denial of further applications for a business
license by such person or entity or for any other entity in which the violator
has an ownership interest.
   (F)   Parental Responsibility: The parent or legal guardian of a minor who
resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable for any wilful violations
of this section and/or actual damages for the acts of such juvenile which cause
injury or damage to a person or property. The parent or legal guardian shall be
liable for the fines, restitution, reparation and/or attorney fees and costs
imposed by a court or administrative hearing officer of the village of Posen
upon a minor for a violation of this section; provided that: 1) such fines,
restitution, reparation and/or attorney fees and costs shall not exceed twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00); and 2) such parent or guardian shall not be
liable for the fees of attorneys of the village of Posen. (Ord. 2007-09, 9-11-
2007)
8-1-60: REPAIR OF VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
A person shall not repair a vehicle on all or any portion of any public street,
public sidewalk or other public property, or allow any fluids in a vehicle to
fall upon or flow to any portion of any public street, public sidewalk or other
public property, except in the event of an accident or emergency repair. (Ord.
2010-02, 3-9-2010)
8-1-61: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply:
   CANNABIS: Includes marihuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any
other entity. (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)
   (B)   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly possess cannabis in any amount of not more than ten grams (10.0 g).
   (C)   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be fined in the
amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each such offense. (Ord. 2016-08,
8-9-2016)
CHAPTER 2
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING AND JUNK YARD
SECTION:
8-2-1: License Required
8-2-2: Burning of Autos
8-2-3: Building Requirements
8-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
A license shall be obtained from the Board for the establishment and
maintenance of an automobile wrecking yard or a junk yard, and no such yard
shall be located as to seriously expose adjoining or adjacent properties.
8-2-2: BURNING OF AUTOS:
No automobile or any part thereof shall be burned for wrecking or salvage
purposes in or on any premises occupied as a wrecking yard.
8-2-3: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   At junk yards, where large quantities of waste, paper, rags and other
combustible materials are handled and stored, the process shall be carried on
in a building of other than frame construction. Height of the building shall
not be over one story, unless building is of fireproof construction.
   (B)   One story buildings shall be provided with skylights in the roof as
may be required by the Fire Chief to provide adequate ventilation in case of
fire.
   (C)   Vertical openings of buildings shall be properly enclosed and window
openings shall be protected by metal frames and sashes glazed with wired glass.
   (D)   Picking rooms shall be separated from storage rooms by a fire
partition or wall. The entrance to such rooms shall be provided with standard,
self closing fire door. All picking rooms shall be provided with exhaust
systems of sufficient capacity to adequately remove dust collections.
   (E)   Every storage building shall be completely protected by an approved
system of automatic sprinklers.
   (F)   All such buildings shall also comply, in all respects, with the
Village Building Code.
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definition
8-3-2: License Required
8-3-3: Application
8-3-4: License Fee
8-3-5: Classification
8-3-6: Oil Peddlers; Restrictions
8-3-7: Peddling on Sunday
8-3-1: DEFINITION:
The word "peddler" is hereby defined to mean any individual who, going from
place to place shall offer for sale, sell and deliver, barter, or exchange any
goods, wares, merchandise, wood, oil, fish, fruits, vegetables or country
produce from a vehicle or otherwise.
8-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a peddler
without a license so to do; provided, however, that the classes of peddlers
specifically defined and licensed by other provisions of this Code shall be
exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
8-3-3: APPLICATION:
Every individual who desires a license as a peddler shall make application
therefor in conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating to
applications for licenses, and shall state whether the applicant desires to be
licensed as a Class I, Class II or Class III peddler. Such application shall
also state in what commodity or article of merchandise such peddler desires to
deal.
The issuance of a license authorizing an individual to engage in the business
of peddling oil shall not be construed as authorizing such individual to
conduct or operate a filling station or engage in the business of fuel oil
dealer without obtaining licenses therefor.
8-3-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a Class I peddler's license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46, Title VII.
The annual fee for a Class II peddler's license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46, Title VII.
The annual fee for a Class III peddler's license shall be as designated in
Chapter 46, Title VII.
8-3-5: CLASSIFICATION:
For the purpose of this Chapter peddlers are divided into three (3) classes as
follows:
   Class I. Wagon or Cart Peddlers. This Class shall include peddlers selling
from wagons, pushcarts, handcarts or other vehicles, who handle commodities
other than wood.
   Class II. Pack or Basket Peddlers. This Class shall include peddlers selling
and delivering only from packs, baskets or similar containers.
   Class III. Wagon or Cart Peddlers' Selling Wood Only. This Class shall
include peddlers who sell wood only From wagons, pushcarts, handcarts or other
vehicles.
8-3-6: OIL PEDDLERS; RESTRICTIONS:
Each applicant for a Class I peddler's license who desires to engage in the
business of peddling oil, solely, shall so state in his application, and shall
specify the number of vehicles he desires or intends to employ in and about
such business, and such application shall be accompanied by a certificate from
the Commissioner of Public Works certifying that each vehicle to be used by
such oil peddler in and about his business is equipped and provided with drip
pans or other devices which will effectual) prevent the spilling or dripping
upon the pavement or street of any of the oil or products thereof to be
conveyed in such vehicle, and that such drip pans or other devices are of a
type approved by the said Commissioner.
Vehicles used for conveying oil or other flammable liquids shall not be used
for the conveying of ice or any article of food or food products.
8-3-7: PEDDLING ON SUNDAY:
It shall be unlawful to peddle any article or thing on Sundays.
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Motor Vehicle Defined
8-5-2: License Required
8-5-3: Application
8-5-4: Fees
8-5-5: License Tags
8-5-6: Sale; Transfer
8-5-1: MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED:
Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power.
8-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or to cause or permit any of his
agents or employees to use any motor vehicle in the transportation of persons
or property or the conveyance of loads upon the streets, avenues or alleys of
the Village unless such motor vehicle is licensed as hereinafter provided.
8-5-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a license for any such motor vehicle shall file an
application therefor with the Clerk, upon a form provided by him, indicating
the name and address of the applicant, the description of the motor vehicle,
and such information as may be prescribed. Such license shall be issued upon
the payment by the applicant of a license fee, as hereinafter provided, to the
Clerk, and shall authorize the use of such motor vehicle until the expiration
of such license.
8-5-4: FEES:
The license fee for each motor vehicle to be paid annually to the Clerk shall
be as designated in
Chapter 46, Title VII.
8-5-5: LICENSE TAGS:
   (A)   Upon the issuance of said license the Clerk shall deliver to the
applicant a gummed tag or sticker upon which shall appear the word "Posen" and
a number identical with the number of such license and the year for which such
license is issued, and it shall be the duty of the applicant to affix such
gummed tag or sticker upon the windshield of the motor vehicle, or if there is
no windshield, then in a conspicuous place upon, said motor vehicle, where it
can readily be seen. It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle although duly
licensed, to be used upon the streets, avenues or alleys of the Village unless
such tag or sticker is attached thereto.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to display more than one (1) Village license tag
or sticker on the windshield of a motor vehicle at any time. Village tags and
stickers from prior years must be removed, and only a current vehicle tag or
sticker may be displayed on a motor vehicle windshield. The owner or operator
of any vehicle found with more than one (1) Village license tag or sticker on
their vehicle as stated in this Section
8-5-5 (B) is guilty of a Village code offense, and subject to a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) for the first offense and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for a
second or subsequent offense. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-17, 5-9-2023)
8-5-6: SALE; TRANSFER:
Immediately upon the sale or transfer of any motor vehicle which has been
therefor licensed as above prior to its date of such sale or transfer, the
vendor or transferer shall remove the license tag or sticker from the motor
vehicle so sold, or transferred, and the license so issued for such motor
vehicle shall cease to apply to said motor vehicle or other motor vehicle,
except as hereinafter provided, from said date. Upon a showing to the Clerk
that said tag or sticker has been so removed from such sold or transferred
vehicle, the Clerk may issue, for a fee of five dollars ($5.00) a new tag
bearing a new number, which shall apply to and be assigned to any other vehicle
of the same class owned by said vendor or transferer; except as above provided,
no tag or sticker issued for or assigned to any motor vehicle shall ever be
used for or attached to or upon another and different motor vehicle. (Ord, 86-
37, 12-9-86; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 5A
DISPLAY OF STATE REGISTRATION PLATES AND REGISTRATION STICKERS
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Display of State Registration Plates and Registration Stickers
8-5A-1: DISPLAY OF STATE REGISTRATION PLATES AND REGISTRATION STICKERS:
   (A)   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle other than a
motorcycle, trailer, semitrailer or truck-tractor shall be attached thereto,
one in the front and one in the rear.
   (B)   The registration plate issued for a motorcycle, trailer or semitrailer
shall be attached to the rear thereof only.
   (C)   The registration plate issued for a truck-tractor shall be attached to
the front thereof only.
   (D)   Every registration plate shall, at all times, be securely fastened in
a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent
the plate from swinging. Such plate shall be fastened at a height of not less
than twelve inches (12") from the ground, measuring from the bottom of such
plate. Such plate shall be fastened in a place and position so as to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
as to be clearly legible.
   (E)   Registration stickers issued as evidence of renewed annual
registration shall be attached to registration plates as required by the
Secretary of State.
   (F)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner permit to be
operated or parked, on any public street or highway in the Village, any vehicle
required to be registered under the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code
either:
      1.   Without valid registration plates and registration stickers or other
proper evidence of registration, as required for that vehicle by the Illinois
Vehicle Code or the Secretary of State; or
      2.   With cancelled, suspended, revoked or expired registration plates,
registration stickers or other proper evidence of registration as required for
that vehicle by the Illinois Vehicle Code or the Secretary of State. (Ord. 86-
4, 3-11-86)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMALS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Adoption Of Cook County Animal Control Code
8-6-2: License Required; Fee
8-6-3: Display Of License Tags
8-6-4: Register
8-6-5: Dogs And Cats Running At Large
8-6-6: Impounding Of Dogs
8-6-7: Dangerous Animals
8-6-8: Noises
8-6-9: Housing
8-6-10: Removal Of Excrement
8-6-1: ADOPTION OF COOK COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL CODE:
That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the village clerk of the village of Posen being marked and designated as the
Cook County animal control code and the applicable reference codes that are
covered within it, hereinafter referred to as the Cook County animal control
code, is hereby adopted as the code for the control of animals and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of Cook County animal
control code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if as, prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003)
8-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
Every owner of, and every person who harbors or keeps a dog or cat within the
corporate limits of the village, shall report to the village hall annually
within seven (7) days of receiving a current rabies certificate for each dog or
cat. Such person shall pay the clerk, or his or her duly authorized
representative, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) as an annual license fee for
each dog and cat, and each license shall expire one year from the date
purchased. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-11-2014)
8-6-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE TAGS:
Every dog and cat shall be provided by the owner or keeper with a nylon,
leather or chain collar, to which a license tag will be securely fastened. No
dog or cat shall be permitted to remain within the limits of the village unless
the owner or keeper thereof shall have caused such dog or cat to be registered
and provided with such collar and tag. Any owner or keeper of a dog or cat,
failing to provide such collar and tag shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance
violation. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003)
8-6-4: REGISTER:
The village hall shall keep a complete register, in a book specially kept for
the purpose of all licensed dogs and cats, describing the same by name, breed,
color and sex, and showing the name and address of the owner or keeper, as
given, and the number of the village license tag. The village shall provide,
each and every year, such number of metal tags as may be necessary. The shape
shall change every year. Having stamped thereon the year for which the tax is
paid, the letters V.P.D.T., and also the number of the tag. It shall be the
duty of the owner to acquire from the village such tag having paid the tax upon
such dog or cat, the number of each tag to correspond with the registry of the
dog or cat. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003)
8-6-5: DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog and/or cat owned
by him or in his possession to travel or run at large upon the streets or
alleys or other public places in the village. A dog or domestic cat is deemed
to be running at large when such animal is off the property of the owner and is
not on a leash held by a human being.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to cross outside
the property line of its owner to any extent, including reaching over or under
a fence, or to keep or allow said animal to be outdoors on an unfenced portion
of the owner's property, unless the animal is leashed and under the control of
its owner.
   (C)   It shall be an unlawful failure to restrain for an animal to attack,
bite, threaten, or jump on any person without that person's consent, outside
the property of the animal's owner. Said animals can be declared a public
nuisance and the owner subject to a fine.
   (D)   Leaving any dog or cat leashed or similarly tethered to a stake or
other such anchor in an unfenced yard is strictly prohibited and a violation of
this Code. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-09, 3-14-2023)
8-6-6: IMPOUNDING OF DOGS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of public works to impound any dog found upon the
streets or alleys or other public places, unless such dog is restrained by a
leash in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Whenever any dog is so
apprehended, it shall be taken to public works and a record there made of its
description and its license tag, if any; and if it be licensed, a reasonable
attempt shall be made within the discretion of the person in charge of the
public works, to locate the owner thereof and inform him of the dog's
apprehension, and shall then be turned over to the pound keeper.
   (B)   If any such dog so impounded is not licensed and is unclaimed within
seventy-two (72) hours after the impounding of such dog, the Public Works
Department shall relinquish to an animal shelter such dog. If the owner of any
impounded, unlicensed dog shall claim the animal during the seventy-two (72)
hour period following its impounding or before the same is relinquished, the
same shall be returned to the owner provided he shall:
      1.   Show satisfactory proof of ownership and current rabies certificate;
      2.   Obtain and pay for a license for such dog for the current year;
      3.   Pay a boarding fee and penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
day that such dog has been impounded, up to a maximum boarding fee and penalty
of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) which payment shall be made to the
Village Hall.
   (C)   If any dog so impounded be licensed and the same is unclaimed within
seventy-two (72) hours after the impounding of the dog, the Public Works
Department shall relinquish to an animal shelter such animal. If the owner of
any licensed dog impounded shall claim such animal during the seventy-two (72)
hour period following its impounding or before the same is relinquished, the
same shall be returned to the owner provided he shall:
      1.   Show satisfactory proof of ownership;
      2.   Pay a boarding fee and penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
day that such dog has been impounded, up to a maximum boarding fee and penalty
of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) after three days, which payment shall be
made to the Village Hall.
   (D)   The President and the Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and
empowered to designate such individual person as be deemed appropriate, whether
residing within or outside the boundaries of the Village to act as pound keeper
and to collect and receive the charges for dogs impounded in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003; Ord. 2014-03, 2-11-
2014; Ord. 2017-01, 2-14-2017; Ord. 2017-14, 9-12-2017; Ord. 2023-07, 2-28-
2023; Ord. 2024-09, 5-28-2024)
8-6-7: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal of any kind to run at large
within the Village. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003)
8-6-8: NOISES:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by
loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-2003)
8-6-9: HOUSING:
No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or may
be kept to become unclean or unsanitary; and it shall be unlawful to keep any
live swine, pigs, chickens or wild animals in the Village. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-10-
2003)
8-6-10: REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT:
No person shall appear with an animal any place in the Village without some
means for the removal of excrement from that animal, nor shall any person fail
to remove any excrement deposited by such animal. This section shall not apply
to a blind person while walking his or her guide dog. Any person found to have
been in violation of this section shall be fined not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2009-05, 6-9-2009)
CHAPTER 7
HUNTING
SECTION:
8-7-1: Hunting Prohibited
8-7-2: Carrying Loaded Rifle; Shotgun
8-7-1: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or attempt to kill through
the use of firearms, any game, bird or animal within the Limits of the Village.
8-7-2: CARRYING LOADED RIFLE; SHOTGUN:
Anyone carrying a loaded rifle or loaded shotgun within the limits of the
Village shall be presumed to be hunting.
CHAPTER 8
SALE AND USE OF DEADLY WEAPONS RESTRICTED
SECTION:
8-8-1: Applicability; Definitions
8-8-2: Firearms Dealer’s License Required
8-8-3: Application For Firearms Dealer’s License; Fee
8-8-4: Issuance Of Firearms Dealer’s License
8-8-5: Period of Firearms Dealer’s License And Renewal Procedure
8-8-6: Firearms Dealer’s License Not Transferable
8-8-7: Firearms Dealer’s General Operating Requirements
8-8-8: Revocation And Suspension Of Firearms Dealer’s License
8-8-9: Hearing On Granting, Denial, Renewal, Revocation, Or Suspension Of
Firearms Dealer’s License
8-8-10: Sale Of Firearms To Intoxicated Persons Prohibited
8-8-11: Lost Or Stolen Firearms
8-8-12: Discharge Of Firearms Within Village Prohibited
8-8-13: Prohibition Against Sale Of Firearms Without Safety Devices
8-8-14: Delivery Of Ammunition Or Firearms Or Blowguns To Persons Under The Age
Of Twenty-One Years
8-8-15: Possession Or Use Of Firearms And Ammunition Or Blowguns By Any Person
Under The Age Of Twenty-One Years Prohibited
8-8-16: Possession Of Firearms On School Property Prohibited
8-8-17: Possession Of Firearms On Village Property Prohibited
8-8-18: Possession Of Firearms Where Alcohol Sold For Consumption Prohibited
8-8-19: Sale Of Ammunition
8-8-20: False Information
8-8-21: Tampering With Firearm Identification
8-8-22: Other Laws Not Affected
8-8-23: Persons Exempt
8-8-24: Antiques And Ornaments
8-8-25: Penalty
8-8-26: Severability
8-8-1: APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter:
   (A)   Applicability:
      1. It is hereby intended that this chapter shall expressly preempt all
Cook County licensing schemes for firearms dealers. As provided in article VII,
section 6(c) of the state of Illinois constitution of 1970, if a county
ordinance conflicts with an ordinance of a municipality, the municipal
ordinance shall prevail within its jurisdiction.
      2.   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be issued separate
and apart from any general business license issued by the Village, including
but not limited to those requirements of Title VII of this Code.
   (B)   Definitions: Except where otherwise indicated by the context, the
following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this
chapter:
AMMUNITION: Any projectile or other device that will or is designed to or may readily be
            converted to be expelled from any "firearm", as that term is defined herein.
BLOWGUN:    A barreled device of any description from which a projectile such as a paintball
            or dart can be forced by mouth or air.
CHIEF OF    The chief of police of the Posen police department or his designee.
POLICE:
            Any lethal, barreled weapon of any description from which a projectile or other
            missile can be discharged by the action of an explosive or compressed gas, or the
FIREARM:    igniting of flammable or explosive substances; excluding, however, any pneumatic
            gun, spring gun, or BB gun that expels a single globular projectile not exceeding
            eighteen inches (18") in diameter and excluding any device excluded by Illinois
            state statutes.
            Any person:
               1. Who is engaged in the business of selling firearms or ammunition at
            wholesale or retail, whether or not such business constitutes the principal
            business of such person;
FIREARMS       2. Who is engaged in the business of manufacturing, servicing or repairing
DEALER:     such firearms or of making or fitting special barrels, stocks, or trigger
            mechanisms to firearms; or
               3. Who is licensed by the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms as a
            "dealer" who possesses a federal license.
               4.   Any person who is a pawnbroker.
HANDGUN:    Any firearm designed to be fired while being held in one hand, or any combination
            of parts from which it is possible to assemble a handgun.
LICENSE:    Includes the word "permit".
MINOR:      Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
PERSON:     Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society,
            joint stock company, or organization of any kind.
            Includes to sell, assign, pledge, lease, loan, give away, or otherwise cause the
            lawful title or rightful possession of a firearm to vest in another. Transfer
            does not include any of the following:
               1. Acquisition of a deadly weapon as the executor, administrator or other
            legal representative of a decedent's estate; or
               2. Transfer of a deadly weapon by bequest or intestate succession; or
               3. Acquisition or transfer of a deadly weapon by a trustee in bankruptcy in
            the administration of a bankrupt's estate; or
               4. Return of a deadly weapon to a person, firm or corporation from whom it was
TRANSFER:   received; or
               5. Transfer of a deadly weapon, where it is required by law in accordance with
            a judgment or decree of any court of lawful jurisdiction; or
               6. Transfer of a deadly weapon to any federal, state or local government, or
            any department, agency, bureau, institution or commission thereof; or
               7. Transfer of a deadly weapon to a private museum, society, institution or
            other private organization which customarily acquires and holds firearms as
            curios or relics or for scientific or research purposes; or
               8. Loan or rental of a deadly weapon solely for the purpose of target shooting
            upon a lawful pistol range or other lawful target range.
VILLAGE:    Village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
 
8-8-2: FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of dealer in
firearms in the Village without first obtaining a license therefor in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-3: APPLICATION FOR FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE; FEE:
   (A)   An applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the
Village a sworn application in writing, on a form to be furnished by the
Village. The application shall include the following information and material:
      1. Name, social security number, date of birth, residence address, and
telephone number of each individual owner, partner, or, if a corporation or
other organization, each officer and member of the governing board;
      2. Citizenship and age of each person signing the application;
      3. Trade names and exact locations and descriptions of any businesses
operated by applicant and each person signing the application, presently and
during the previous five (5) years;
      4. Names and addresses of employers of each person signing the
application during the previous five (5) years;
      5. The trade name and address of the business on behalf of which
application is made and its telephone number, if assigned;
      6. The name, social security number, date of birth, firearms owners'
identification card (FOID) number, residence address, and telephone number of
each person employed or intended to be employed to deal in firearms as of the
time the application is filed;
      7. Applicant, and each person signing the application, must appear in the
police department within fourteen (14) days before application is made to have
his or her photograph taken, which photo is to become part of the application;
      8. Fingerprints of the applicant and each person signing the application.
   (B)   Applications filed under this section by a corporation or other
organization shall be signed by the Mayor, officer or other person duly
authorized to act for such corporation or organization.
   (C)   An application fee in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall accompany each application filed under this section. Upon the
issuance of a license, such fee shall constitute the license fee for a single
year. Each license hereunder for a firearms' dealer shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per year or such other sum as may be established by
ordinance. The license shall expire on April 30th following the date of
issuance. The fee for a license issued for less than one year shall be
prorated.
   (D)   By filing the application, the applicant agrees to abide by all terms
of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-4: ISSUANCE OF FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE:
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a firearms dealer's license as
provided for herein, the chief of police shall order an investigation of the
applicant's business responsibility and moral character.
   (B)   The Mayor shall approve the application if he finds that:
      1. The applicant has not been convicted in any jurisdiction of a crime of
violence punishable by imprisonment for more than one year;
      2. The applicant is at least twenty-one (21) years of age;
      3. The applicant is a citizen of the United States;
      4. The applicant is not otherwise ineligible to own or possess any
firearm under the laws of this Village, the state or any federal laws or
regulations;
      5. The premises in which the dealer is to operate meets all Village codes
and licensing requirements; and
      6. There is no other firearms dealer's license issued by the Village.
   (C)   Upon completion of an investigation by the chief of police and within
thirty (30) to forty-five (45) days after receipt of an application and fee
filed pursuant to the provisions herein, the Village shall issue to the
applicant a license as a dealer in firearms or shall notify the applicant by
written order of the denial of his application and the reason or reasons
therefor.
   (D)   Because of the Village's responsibility to its citizens and the
Village's concerns for public health, safety and welfare of its residents there
shall only be one (1) Posen firearms dealer's license issued subsequent to the
passage of this chapter and said license must be in an area zoned for business.
(Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-5: PERIOD OF FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE AND RENEWAL PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by the Village, any license or renewal
license issued hereunder shall be effective as of the date of its issuance and
shall be valid until April 30th of each calendar year.
   (B)   An applicant for a renewal license shall file with the Village a
written application upon forms provided by the Village, signed and sworn to in
the same manner required in the case of an original application, and a fee as
above prescribed. The application shall contain such information about the
applicant's demeanor and the conduct and operation of the licensed business
during the preceding license period as is reasonably necessary to enable the
chief of police to determine the applicant's eligibility for a renewal license.
   (C)   The Mayor shall approve the application if all applicable standards
are met, and the renewal fee paid. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-6: FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
No firearms dealer's license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or
assigned or used by any person other than the person to whom it is issued, or
at any location other than the one for which it is issued. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-
2023)
8-8-7: FIREARMS DEALER'S GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all firearms
dealers licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Display Of License: The license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be available for display on the business premises.
   (B)   Valid ID And Background Check Required: No firearm shall be sold or
given away or otherwise disposed of to any person who does not possess and
exhibit a valid Illinois firearms owners ID card; and who does not pass the
background investigation required under applicable Illinois law and all other
applicable Illinois firearm laws.
   (C)   Record Of Transactions: Every person licensed as a firearms dealer
shall keep on the premises mentioned and described in the license an accurate
record of every transaction involving a firearm. Such record shall contain the
date and time of the transaction (application and sale and delivery); the name,
age, and residence of the purchaser; the purchaser's FOID number; the firearms
registration number; and a description of the firearm involved in the
transaction, including the make, model, manufacturer's name and serial number,
the caliber or gauge, and any other distinguishing number or identification
mark on such firearm.
   (D)   Record Inspection: The record herein required shall be open at all
reasonable hours for inspection by any member of the Posen police department
authorized by the chief of police or any authorized federal or state official.
   (E)   Monthly Submission Of Transfer Records: Any person possessing a
license obtained under this chapter, in addition to any other reports required
by law, must provide to the chief of police, on a monthly basis, the following
information:
A written report containing the name, address, telephone number, social
security number and age of the person to whom the licensee transferred a
firearm, the date on which the transfer took place, the type, model and a
description of the firearm, the manufacturer of the firearm, the price of the
firearm, the serial number of the firearm, a photocopy of the purchaser's
firearms owner's identification card and the purpose given by the purchaser for
the acquisition of the firearm.
   (F)   Advertising And Display Prohibited: There shall be no outside
advertising of sale of firearms or ammunition on the building or in the
windows, and no advertising of the business shall be put in any papers, flyers
(except as provided in subsection (G) of this section), magazines or
periodicals. There shall be no firearms openly displayed in the establishment.
   (G)   Authorized Sales And Transfers: The primary sale of firearms shall be
to authorized police and security personnel; and flyers may be sent to these
organizations. There may be transfers between authorized firearms dealers. A
record of said transfers must be kept.
   (H)   Illegal Sales: No sale of any type of firearms which is illegal by
federal or state laws and no sale of assault rifles except as may be authorized
for sale to law enforcement agencies, including but not limited to the Illinois
Firearms Dealer License Certification Act, 430 ILCS 68/3.1 et. al.
   (I)   Security Required: Appropriate security for the building and the
firearms are required, including, but not limited to, video cameras, burglar
alarms, fire alarms, etc.
   (J)   Transfer Of More Than One Firearm Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person possessing a license to transfer to any person more than one firearm
in any thirty (30) day period. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-8: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE:
   (A)   A firearms dealer's license issued hereunder may be revoked or
suspended by the Mayor whenever they determine that the public interest so
requires and when it is found, after due investigation, that:
      1. The licensee breaches any condition upon which the license was issued
or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter; or
      2. The licensee has obtained the license through any fraud or
misstatement; or
      3. The licensed business is a nuisance, or is being operated or carried
on in any unlawful manner; or
      4. The licensed business is no longer being operated; or
      5. The dealer has had revoked any permit or license required to hold a
dealer's license.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the Mayor that a firearms dealer's license
should be revoked or suspended, a written order of revocation or suspension
setting forth the reason or reasons therefor shall be issued by the Village and
served upon the licensee. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-9: HEARING ON GRANTING, DENIAL, RENEWAL, REVOCATION, OR SUSPENSION OF
FIREARMS DEALER'S LICENSE:
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order of the Mayor granting, denying,
renewing, revoking, or suspending a license for a proposed or existing business
of dealer in firearms, may file a written request for a hearing before the
Mayor within ten (10) days after issuance of such order. The Mayor shall give
notice of a hearing upon this request to be held in not less than five (5) days
after service of the notice on the person requesting the hearing. The Mayor
shall also give notice of the hearing to other persons directly interested in
the order in question. At such hearing, the Mayor shall determine whether the
granting, denial, renewal, revocation, or suspension of the license was in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue written findings
of fact, conclusions of law, and an order to carry out its findings and
conclusions. These findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order shall be
served by the Mayor upon all parties appearing or represented at said hearing.
   (B)   The Village attorney shall furnish such assistance and advice to the
Mayor as he shall request.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Mayor pursuant to the
provisions of this section may, at any time within thirty-five (35) days after
the date the decision was served upon the party, file an appeal with the
circuit court of Cook County in accordance with applicable provisions of law
under the administrative review act. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-10: SALE OF FIREARMS TO INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, loan, or furnish a firearm to any person
under the influence of alcohol or any narcotic drug or stimulant or depressant
or to any person in a condition of agitation and excitability.
   (B)   Such unlawful sale, loan, or furnishing shall be grounds for
revocation of any license issued by the Village pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-11: LOST OR STOLEN FIREARMS:
The loss or theft of any firearm shall be reported to the chief of police or
any other Village Police Officer by the person from whose possession the
firearm was lost or stolen, within twenty-four (24) hours after such loss or
theft is discovered. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-12: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS WITHIN VILLAGE PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge any firearm within the Village except by permission
of the chief of police, granted for special occasions, except in proper
position for firing salutes or by command of a proper military or police
officer in the performance of official duty, or in a licensed shooting range.
(Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-13: PROHIBITION AGAINST SALE OF FIREARMS WITHOUT SAFETY DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person possessing a license to transfer any
firearm which does not contain a safety mechanism, such as a trigger lock,
cable lock, combination handle lock or solenoid use limitation device, that
substantially hinders the use of the firearm by children under the age of
seventeen (17) or other unauthorized users. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-14: DELIVERY OF AMMUNITION OR FIREARMS OR BLOWGUNS TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE
OF TWENTY-ONE YEARS:
No person shall sell, barter, lend, give, or in any way furnish to a person
under the age of twenty-one (21) years any firearm or blowgun or any cartridge,
shell, ammunition, or device containing any explosive substance, designed or
intended to be used in or fired from a firearm. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-15: POSSESSION OR USE OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION OR BLOWGUNS BY ANY PERSON
UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE YEARS PROHIBITED:
No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall fire, discharge, shoot,
or operate, or participate in the firing, discharging, shooting, or operating,
or have in his possession, care, custody, or control a firearm or blowgun or
device designed or intended to discharge, or capable of discharging any
dangerous missile, or any cartridge, shell, ammunition, or device containing
any explosive substance, designed or intended to be used in or fired from any
firearm. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-16: POSSESSION OF FIREARMS ON SCHOOL PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person except authorized law enforcement officers shall knowingly possess,
carry or use a firearm in a school building, on any school property or other
facility used for school purposes or at a school sponsored activity. (Ord.
2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-17: POSSESSION OF FIREARMS ON VILLAGE PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
Unless authorized, no employee of the Village shall bring onto, nor have in his
possession while on Village property or any other property upon which the
employee is conducting Village business, a firearm, whether concealed or
unconcealed, loaded or unloaded. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-18: POSSESSION OF FIREARMS WHERE ALCOHOL SOLD FOR CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED:
No person except authorized law enforcement officers, shall carry or possess a
firearm in that portion of any tavern, lounge, or other licensed establishment
where alcoholic beverages are sold or offered for sale to the public for
consumption on the premises. This provision applies whether or not the firearm
is concealed or visible, or loaded or unloaded; and whether or not the
possessor has a license or permit to carry the firearm. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-
2023)
8-8-19: SALE OF AMMUNITION:
No ammunition suitable for use in any firearm shall be sold or given away or
otherwise disposed of to any person who has not been issued an Illinois
firearms owners identification card and who does not exhibit such document to
the dealer at the time of the purchase. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-20: FALSE INFORMATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person purchasing any firearm or ammunition or
license under this chapter, or in giving any information pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter, to give false information or offer false evidence
of his identity or age. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-21: TAMPERING WITH FIREARM IDENTIFICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change, alter, remove, or obliterate the
name of the maker, model, manufacturer's number, or any other mark or
identification on any firearm. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-22: OTHER LAWS NOT AFFECTED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting or otherwise altering
the requirements of any other applicable laws respecting the carrying, use or
possession of weapons. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-23: PERSONS EXEMPT:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale, transfer,
ownership, or possession of any firearm or ammunition to or by:
   (A)   Any person directly transporting any firearm to the police department
of this Village to surrender such firearm pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law, statute or regulation;
   (B)   Any member of the armed forces of the United States or of the national
guard when on duty;
   (C)   Any authorized officer, agent or employee of a local municipality, the
state, or the federal government who is authorized to carry a firearm and who
is carrying a firearm in the performance of his official authorized duties; and
   (D)   Any law enforcement officers employed by governmental agencies outside
the state who are engaged in their official duties. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-24: ANTIQUES AND ORNAMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to antique firearms which are
incapable of being fired or discharged or which do not fire fixed ammunition,
or those manufactured before 1898 for which cartridge ammunition is not
commercially available, and are possessed as curiosities or ornaments or for
their historical significance or value. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-25: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day the violation
occurs or continues to occur shall be a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
8-8-26: SEVERABILITY:
Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this chapter.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or portion of this chapter is held
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then that
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2023-03, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 9
NOISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Unnecessary Noises Prohibited
8-9-2: Unnecessary Noises Defined
8-9-3: Penalties
8-9-1: UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise which either annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, convenience, health,
peace, or safety of others within the Village. Nothing contained herein shall
apply to any noise caused or created by the Village’s Fire, Police or Public
Works Departments, as such noises are deemed necessary for the safety and
security of the Village and its residents. (amd. Ord. 2022-18, 7-12-2022)
8-9-2: UNNECESSARY NOISES DEFINED:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this Chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive.
   (A)   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public place
of the Village, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of any
such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any
horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any
such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
   (B)   Live Bands, Radios, Phonographs: The playing, using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, television receiving set, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or with louder volume
than is necessary for convenient hearing for the persons who are in the room,
chamber, vehicle, or outdoor area, where such machine or device is played, used
or operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto.
   (C)   Loud Speakers, Amplifiers for Advertising: The playing, using,
operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving
set, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier, or other
sound amplifying devices.
   (D)   As used in this Section, noise shall be measured at the property line
from which the noise is generated, noise shall be muffled so as not to violate
applicable standards due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness, or
intensity. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound level meter
and an octave band analyzer that conforms to ANSI S1.4-2020 (American National
Standards Institute) specifications, or any successor standard promulgated by
ANSI. Preferred frequencies for acoustical measurements shall be used. Noise
measured exceeding the levels in Table 1 shall be a violation of this Section.
For comparison, Table 2 shows examples of typical sound pressure levels.
Table 1
 
Land Use    7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. 7:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
Residential 55 dBA                 50 dBA
Business    62 dBA                 55 dBA
Industrial  80 dBA                 80 dBA
 
Table 2
Sound Environment Levels Typical Sound Pressure Generated
Sound Environment Levels        Typical Sound Pressure Generated
Threshold of hearing            0 dBA
Broadcast studio                20 dBA
Library                         30 dBA
Quiet office                    40 dBA
Light auto traffic (100 feet)   50 dBA
Air-conditioning unit (20 feet) 60 dBA
Freeway traffic                 70 dBA
Vacuum cleaner                  80 dBA
Passing car at 10 feet          90 dBA
Passing bus or truck at 10 feet 100 dBA
Passing subway train at 10 feet 110 dBA
Nightclub with band playing     120 dBA
Jet takeoff (200 feet)          130 dBA
Weather warning sign            135 dBA
 
(Ord. 87-5, 3-24-87; amd. Ord. 2022-16, 6-28-2022)
8-9-3: PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, the fine for a first
violation of this Section shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fine for
a second violation of this Section within thirty (30) days shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00). Subsequent violations of this Section shall be a fine not
exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each subsequent violation.
A separate violation will be deemed to have occurred on each day that a person
or entity shall be found to be in violation of a provision of this Section.
(Ord. 2022-16, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 10
FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Sale Of Fireworks Prohibited
8-10-2: Discharge Of Fireworks; Permit Required
8-10-3: Fireworks Defined
8-10-4: Permit For Public Display
8-10-5: Penalties
8-10-1: SALE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
No person shall keep or expose for sale, sell or store any fireworks,
firecracker, torpedoes, bombs, rockets, Roman candles or any substances or
articles of an explosive nature intended to be used as fireworks, within the
limits of the Village. (Ord. 87-6, 3-24-1987)
8-10-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No fireworks shall be kept, stored, used, manufactured, assembled, mixed, sold,
handled, transported, discharged or set off within the Village, except for
public display, and under a permit issued by the President and Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 87-6, 3-24-1987)
8-10-3: FIREWORKS DEFINED:
The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive composition or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky
rockets, Roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any
fireworks containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other device
containing combustible substances producing visual effects. The term
"fireworks" shall not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices,
sparklers; trick noisemakers known as "party popper", "booby traps",
"snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar alarms"; toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty five- hundredths (.25) grains or less of explosive compound
are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps which contain less than twenty five- hundredths (.25) grains of explosive
mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times. (Ord. 87-6,
3-24-1987)
8-10-4: PERMIT FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY:
The Village President and Board of Trustees, upon due application or request,
may issue a permit or permits to a properly qualified individual, corporation
or association for the giving of a display of fireworks in a public park or
other public open places. Each such permit shall impose such restrictions as in
the opinion of the Village President and Board of Trustees may be necessary to
safeguard life and property in each case. (Ord. 87-6, 3-24-1987)
8-10-5: PENALTIES:
It is unlawful for any persons to discharge or set off fireworks within the
Village, penalties are set as follows: first offense will be in the amount of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), second offense will be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00), third offense will be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a single day. The fourth offense will
result in the arrest of a misdemeanor punishable up to three hundred sixty four
(364) days in Cook County Jail. (Ord. 2018-09, 6-26-2018)
CHAPTER 11
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA CONTROL
SECTION:
8-11-1: Title
8-11-2: Definitions
8-11-3: Prohibition On Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
8-11-4: Exemptions
8-11-5: Construction
8-11-1: TITLE:
Sections
8-11-1 through
8-11-5 of this chapter, inclusive, shall be known and may be referred to and
cited as the DRUG PARAPHERNALIA CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2008-19, 11-10-2008)
8-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The term the "act" shall refer to the drug paraphernalia control act
of the state of Illinois, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq.
   (B)   Unless the context indicates otherwise, terms used in this chapter
shall have the meanings provided to them in the act. (Ord. 2008-19, 11-10-2008)
8-11-3: PROHIBITION ON POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (A)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of a violation of this chapter.
The fine for such a violation shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
This subsection does not apply to a person who is legally authorized to possess
hypodermic syringes or needles under the hypodermic syringes and needles act,
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/1 et seq.
   (B)   In determining intent under subsection (A) of this section, the trier
of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled
substances to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 2008-19, 11-10-2008)
8-11-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or
other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      2.   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance. Items exempt under this
subsection include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles,
baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers.
      3.   Items listed in section 2 of the act which are used for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable
of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by the act.
      4.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the hypodermic syringes and needles act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 635/1 et seq.
      5.   Any items or persons considered to be exempt from the provisions of
the act.
   (B)   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt from
violation of this chapter pursuant to this section, the trier of fact should
consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device
upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed
for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 2008-19, 11-10-2008)
8-11-5: CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be construed in the same manner as the act. (Ord. 2008-19,
11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 12
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-12-1: Definitions
8-12-2: Violations
8-12-3: Defenses
8-12-4: Notice Of Violation
8-12-5: Hearing
8-12-6: Non-Residents
8-12-7: Final Determination
8-12-8: Notice Of Determination Of Liability
8-12-9: Notice Of Final Determination
8-12-10: Petitions To Set Aside Determination
8-12-11: Notice Of Impending Drivers License Suspension
8-12-12: Drivers License Suspension
8-12-13: Penalty
8-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the Village of Posen
with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-
306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code ("Code"), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306, or similar violation of this Code.
CODE: Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100, et seq.
DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
NO TURN ON RED: Where the motor vehicle must come to a complete stop and remain
stopped, and not proceeding to turn right at an intersection controlled by both
a sign indicating "No turn on red", or other similar language, and a red signal
as provided for in section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the Village that
shall have the following additional powers: adopt, distribute and process
automated traffic law violation notices and other notices required by this
chapter, collect money paid as fines and penalties, operate the automated
traffic law enforcement system, and make certified reports to the Secretary of
State as required by this chapter.
VILLAGE: The Village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-
2017)
8-12-2: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or no turn on red in violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code. All violations must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement
officer or a retired officer employed by the Village. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-
2017)
8-12-3: DEFENSES:
   (A)   The following may be considered defenses by the Hearing Officer for a
violation of section
8-12-2 of this chapter:
      1.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation. Provided, however, to
demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner;
      2.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: a) in order to yield the right-of-way to an emergency
vehicle or b) as part of a funeral procession;
      3.   The operator of the vehicle was issued a uniform traffic control
citation by a police officer for the same incident;
      4.   The vehicle was leased to another, and within sixty (60) days after
the citation was mailed to the lessor, lessor submitted to the Village,
together with a copy of the lease agreement, the lessee's driver's license
number, and any additional information as may be required;
      5.   The respondent was not the registered vehicle owner or lessee of the
cited vehicle at the time of the violation;
      6.   The vehicle was an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-
10-2017)
8-12-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   (A)   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of section
8-12-2 of this chapter, the Village shall issue a written notice of violation
to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by
U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois Secretary of State
notifies the Village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the violation.
The Village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/
lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease
within sixty (60) days of the notice's issuance. If the driver information is
not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor may be found
liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a second
notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United States Post
Office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. The
second notice shall be made by first class mail postage prepaid.
   (B)   A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by the
Traffic Compliance Administrator, a law enforcement officer or retired officer
employed by the Village, who shall inspect the image and determine whether the
motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section
8-12-2 of this chapter, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in section
8-12-3 of this chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that the recorded image captures a violation and that no defense
applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle
owner in the manner provided for above. The Traffic Compliance Administrator
shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other
correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each notice of violation
shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above-noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in this chapter.
   (C)   The notice of violation shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
      2.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   The violation charged;
      4.   The location where the violation occurred;
      5.   The date and time of the violation;
      6.   A copy of the recorded images;
      7.   The amount of the civil fine and the date by which the fine should
be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not requested, and
a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a final disposition
of the violation;
      8.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil fine by the date noted
may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      9.   The amount of the late fee;
      10.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
      11.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine
or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing;
      13.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested; and
      14.   A website address, accessible through the internet, where the
individual may review the recorded images of the violation. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-
10-2017)
8-12-5: HEARING:
The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of section
8-12-2 of this chapter may request a hearing by the respond-by date on the
notice of violation (14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the
evidence or set forth an applicable defense. The notice of violation shall
constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in
any proceeding alleging a violation of section
8-12-2 of this chapter. The notice of violation shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
section
8-12-3 of this chapter.
The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding of
liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a "findings, decision and
order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
(Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-6: NON-RESIDENTS:
Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident of
the Village but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
person may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any
and all documentary evidence to the Traffic Compliance Administrator no later
than the hearing date, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are non-residents of the Village. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall
forward all timely- submitted materials to the Hearing Officer for review and
determination. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-7: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A final determination of an automated traffic law violation(s) liability shall
occur:
   (A)   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty after
the Hearing Officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance
regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within the required
twenty five (25) days and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any
administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth, or
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice. The Hearing Officer's determination of vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-8: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within fourteen (14) days of the notice of violation. Where a person
fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and
manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the Hearing Officer will enter
findings, decision and order's determination of automated traffic law violation
liability which shall become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set
aside that determination, or b) upon expiration of the period for filing such a
petition without a filing having been made. If a person appears at a hearing
and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and is found liable, the
Hearing Officer will enter findings, decision and order, which is a final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability that is a final,
appealable order. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-9: NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION:
   (A)   A notice of final determination shall be sent following the final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion
of judicial review. The notice of final determination shall include the
following information:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
Village of Posen.
      2.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the
Village of Posen within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to the
Circuit Court of Cook County to have the unpaid fine rendered as a judgment or
may result in the suspension of the person's drivers license for failure to pay
fines or penalties for five (5) or more violations under this chapter. (Ord.
2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-10: PETITIONS TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION:
   (A)   A petition to set aside determination of an automated traffic law
violation must be filed with or mailed to the Traffic Control Administrator
within fourteen (14) days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination
of liability. The grounds for the petition are limited to:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date the violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; and
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of
liability, the Hearing Officer shall review the petition to determine if cause
has been shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the
Village shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner
must appear to present his case. The Village shall notify the petitioner of the
Hearing Officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within
fourteen (14) days of the Village's receipt. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-11: NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   (A)   A notice of impending drivers license suspension shall be sent to the
person liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or
more violations of this chapter. The notice of impending drivers license
suspension shall state the following information:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the Village notifying the Secretary of State that
the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under section
6-306.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
      2.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Village
along with a request for the copy.
   (B)   The notice of impending drivers license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Secretary
of State or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved database.
(Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
8-12-12: DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   (A)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator, by certified report, shall
request that the Secretary of State suspend the driving privileges of an owner
of a registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
as a result of five (5) automated traffic violations. The report shall be
certified and contain the following:
      1.   The name, last known address as recorded with the Secretary of
State, as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or
as recorded in a United States Post Office approved database if any notice sent
under this chapter is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
      2.   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
      3.   A statement that a notice of impending driver's license suspension
has been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with
the Secretary of State or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this chapter is
returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a United States
Post Office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent; and
address to which such notice was sent.
   (B)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall notify the Secretary of
State whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the Municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
   (C)   Any person receiving notice from the Secretary of State that their
driving privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may
challenge the accuracy of the certified report prepared by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having
received notice from the Secretary of State, request an opportunity to speak
with the Traffic Compliance Administrator to challenge the accuracy of the
certified report. If the Traffic Compliance Administrator determines that the
original report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the
report was not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has
already paid their fine for the five (5) or more automated traffic violations,
the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall immediately notify the Secretary of
State of such error in a subsequent certified report. (Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-
2017)
8-12-13: PENALTY:
The owner (or lessee) of a motor vehicle is subject to a fine or penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per automated traffic law violation. In the event
that such fine or penalty is not paid within fourteen (14) days after service
of a final determination of liability, an additional one hundred dollar
($100.00) late payment fine or penalty shall be imposed. A fine or penalty
shall not apply if the driver of the motor vehicle received a uniform traffic
citation from a police officer at the time of the violation. The Village may
not charge court costs or hearing fees to persons found liable after exercising
their right to appear and contest the violation at an administrative hearing.
(Ord. 2017-17, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 13
PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Definitions
8-13-2: Nuisance Declared
8-13-3: Exemptions From Provisions
8-13-4: Portable Storage Unit Sites
8-13-5: Portable Storage Unit Regulations
8-13-6: Penalty; Conflicts
8-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      (3)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      (4)   Words used in the present tense include the future.
      (5)   Words or phrases not defined shall be given their common and
ordinary meaning unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   (B)   Whenever in this chapter the following words and phrases are used,
they shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section, except when the context otherwise indicates.
   (C)   PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT: A movable, fully enclosed, box-like container
without any foundation, footings, wheels, or axles; with or without signage on
its outer surfaces; which may be affixed to a trailer and is designed and used
for outdoor storage of items, materials, or personal property. Such containers
are uniquely designed for ease of loading to and from a transport vehicle and
are delivered and removed by such a vehicle. The term "portable storage unit"
includes shipping containers not affixed to a transport vehicle. The term
"portable storage unit" does not include construction trailers associated with
a valid and active building permit.
   (D)   SITE: A tract or plot of real estate occupied or that may be occupied.
   (E)   USER: The owner or occupant of real estate with a dumpster or a
portable storage unit on a site located in the village.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
8-13-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   It is hereby declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful to place,
maintain, store, or use any portable storage unit on any property in the
village in any manner not authorized by this chapter or in violation of any
more restrictive regulation contained in another chapter of this code.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
8-13-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   The restrictions and regulations contained in this chapter shall not apply
to any portable storage unit that is located on property owned or used by a
unit of local, state, or federal government or a railroad.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
8-13-4: PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT SITES:
   (A)   Residential Sites: Only one (1) portable storage unit may be placed,
maintained, stored, or used on a residential site at any time and shall not
exceed ten (10) feet in height and one hundred thirty (130) square feet in
size. A portable storage unit may be placed, maintained, stored, or used only
upon a residential driveway, public roadway directly adjacent to the
residential site, or other parking area constructed of a concrete or asphalt
surface, provided that the placement, maintenance, storage, or use of the
portable storage unit does not impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, or interfere with the normal operation of the permanent use on the
site, and the proposed location is approved by the building official or such
designee. A portable storage unit shall not be placed, maintained, stored, or
used on a residential site or a public roadway directly adjacent to the
residential site for more than five (5) consecutive days. No person, firm,
corporation, or other entity shall place, maintain, store, or use a portable
storage unit upon a residential site or a public roadway directly adjacent to
the residential site for more than four (4) such five (5) consecutive day
periods per calendar year.
   (B)   Commercial Or Industrial Sites: No portable storage unit(s) may be
located on any other property, including commercial or industrial sites, at any
time.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
8-13-5: PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Portable storage units shall be utilized only for the storage,
loading, and unloading of items, materials, or personal property. A portable
storage unit shall not be utilized for the purpose of conducting business,
selling merchandise or property, dwelling, living, habitation, camping,
cooking, or recreation. A portable storage unit shall not be supplied with or
connected to water, sewer, gas, or electric service. It is the intent of this
chapter to limit, except as provided herein, the placement and use of any
portable storage unit as an accessory building or storage building on any site
in the village.
   (B)   Boards/slats shall be placed under a portable storage unit to protect
the surface such container is located on. The portable storage unit shall be
placed on an asphalt surface and behind privacy fencing of at least eight feet
(8') in height to conceal the unit from public view. The portable storage unit
user and permit holder shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage to
the public right-of-way. In the event of damage to the public right-of-way, the
utilities commissioner, or such designee, shall estimate, or cause an estimate
to be made of, the cost to repair the damage, and the user and permit holder
will be notified of the cost of repair. The portable storage unit user and
permit holder shall be jointly and severally liable for the cost to repair the
damage. Failure of the user or permit holder to pay the cost to repair the
damage within thirty (30) days of receipt of the estimate of the cost of repair
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount as determined by section 4-9-9.
   (C)   The stacking or placement of any item on top of or around any portable
storage unit shall be strictly prohibited.
   (D)   A portable storage unit shall be painted and in good condition and
appearance, with no structural damage, holes in the container that would allow
leaks, visible rust, visible weathering, discoloration, or other forms of
visible deterioration; capable of being moved intact; free of vermin or other
pests; and free of graffiti, advertising, or signage other than the name,
address, and telephone number of the person or entity engaged in the business
of renting or otherwise placing the portable storage unit, and the signage must
be permanently adhered to, or painted on, the portable storage unit. The
exterior of the portable storage unit shall be constructed of weatherproof
material.
   (E)   A portable storage unit shall not be used to store solid waste,
construction debris, demolition debris, recyclable materials, illegal
materials, or personal or business property of a toxic, flammable, combustible,
hazardous, or offensive nature. Upon reasonable notice to the user and upon
reasonable cause to believe the portable storage unit is being used in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the village may inspect the
contents of any portable storage unit at any reasonable time.
   (F)   A portable storage unit shall be kept locked and secured against
unauthorized entry when not being loaded or unloaded.
   (G)   Safety reflective barricades shall be placed by the portable storage
unit user or permit holder around any portable storage unit placed, maintained,
stored, or used on the public roadway in the manner and in the locations
approved by the building official or such designee.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
8-13-6: PENALTY; CONFLICTS:
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (B)   Any portable storage unit in violation of the requirements of this
chapter shall be removed immediately from the site said container is located on
at the user's expense.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the village in any
way to use any or all means available to remove the nuisance, or summarily
eliminate immediate hazards to the public health, safety or welfare as granted
in any ordinances of the village or the laws or Constitution of the State of
Illinois.
   (D)   Whenever a person, firm, corporation, or other entity violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, the village may cause appropriate legal actions
and proceedings, in law or in equity, to be instituted and maintained to
enforce compliance herewith.
   (E)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter by a property owner or any officer,
director, manager, agent, employee, patron, tenant, contractor, or
subcontractor thereof shall be deemed and held to be the act of such property
owner, and such property owner shall be punishable in the same manner as if
such act or omission had been done or omitted by the property owner personally.
   (F)   The restrictions and regulations contained in this chapter shall be
interpreted as minimum standards and shall be in addition to any other
applicable village ordinances and requirements that apply to dumpsters or
portable storage units or the sites on which they are located. If any
restriction or regulation in this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
other restriction or regulation in this code, the most restrictive or highest
standard shall prevail.
(Ord. 2025-19, 8-12-2025)
TITLE IX
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 2
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 3
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 4
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 5
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 6
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 7
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 8
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 9
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 10
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 11
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 12
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 13
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 14
(Rep. by Ord. 79-3, 1979)
CHAPTER 15
BURNING PROHIBITED
SECTION:
9-15-1: Prohibited
9-15-2: Allowable Burning
9-15-3: Approved Burning; Bonfires
9-15-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, refuse or any material not
exempted under section
9-15-2 of this chapter within the village. (Ord. 01-07, 6-12-2001)
9-15-2: ALLOWABLE BURNING:
Burning shall be allowed without prior approval of the fire chief or his
designee for the purpose of cooking food or providing heat under the following
conditions:
   (A)   Flames shall be of minimal size for the intended purpose and fuel
shall be chosen to minimize the generation and emissions of air contaminants.
Fuel for burning shall be limited to kindling, commercially sold fire logs,
seasoned firewood, charcoal and propane. A small amount of paper and/or
commercially sold charcoal fire starter may be used to ignite the burn.
   (B)   All burning shall be contained in a commercially manufactured and
approved grill, fireplace or rotisserie container. All outdoor burning shall be
confined and limited to the backyard or rear areas of any property, and be
located only behind any residence or building on said property. No fire shall
be located less than ten feet (10') from the nearest portion of any structure,
tree, vehicle or building, nor within ten feet (10') of any property line.
   (C)   Said commercially manufactured fire containers shall employ screens
and/or a lid to enclose the fire contained therein.
   (D)   No container fire shall be permitted to emit offensive or
objectionable smoke or odors.
   (E)   Containers shall be used strictly in adherence with all manufacturer's
guidelines and specifications.
   (F)   All lids and screens shall be secured and shall not be removed until
the fire is out or extinguished.
   (G)   Any fire shall be attended at all times by a person eighteen (18)
years or older, and be so attended at all times when in use until the fire is
out or extinguished.
   (H)   A water source or other provisions for extinguishing the fire shall be
immediately accessible at all times until the fire is out or extinguished.
(Ord. 2014-11, 9-9-2014)
9-15-3: APPROVED BURNING; BONFIRES:
All burning not described in section
9-15-2 of this chapter shall constitute a bonfire and be prohibited unless
prior notice and approval is granted by the fire chief or his designee.
Notwithstanding prior approval for burning under this section, the fire chief
or his designee shall order the extinguishment of any burn that is offensive or
objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions or when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make burning hazardous. (Ord. 01-07, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 16
FIRE PREVENTION CODE; LIFE SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
9-16-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
9-16-2: Adoption Of Life Safety Code
9-16-3: Bureau Of Fire Prevention Created
9-16-4: Definitions
9-16-5: Storage Of Explosives Prohibited
9-16-6: Aboveground Tanks Prohibited
9-16-7: Underground Storage
9-16-8: Bulk Storage Prohibited
9-16-9: Transportation Of Explosives And Flammable Liquids
9-16-10: Flammable Liquids
9-16-11: Liquefied Petroleum Gas
9-16-12: Amendments, Exceptions
9-16-13: Modifications
9-16-14: Enforcement
9-16-15: Permits
9-16-16: Fire Lanes Established
9-16-17: False Alarms
9-16-18: Fire Hydrants Use
9-16-19: Penalties
9-16-20: Severability
9-16-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the village clerk of the village of Posen, being marked and designated as the
BOCA national fire prevention code in its current edition, as published by the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., be and is
hereby adopted as the fire prevention code of the village of Posen, in the
state of Illinois: for the control of buildings, structures and premises and
herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said BOCA national fire prevention code, and hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 99-17, 7-13-1999)
9-16-2: ADOPTION OF LIFE SAFETY CODE:
That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the village clerk of the village of Posen, being marked and designated as, life
safety codes in its current edition, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, be and is hereby adopted as the life safety code of the
village of Posen, in the state of Illinois: for the control of buildings,
structures and premises and herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said life safety
code, and hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this chapter. (Ord. 99-18, 7-13-1999)
9-16-3: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION CREATED:
The fire prevention code and life safety code shall be enforced by the bureau
of fire prevention, in the Posen fire department, which is hereby established
and which shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire
department.
   (A)   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the board of trustees and village
president the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization
is made, shall be selected through an examination as prescribed by the board of
trustees and village president to determine their fitness for the position. The
examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and
appointments made by the village president after examination shall be as
provided by the "Illinois municipal code" as to concurrence, term, bond, oath
and removal.
   (B)   A report of the bureau of fire prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the village president containing all proceedings under this
code, with such statistics as the fire chief of the fire department may wish to
include therein. The fire chief of the fire department shall also recommend any
amendments to the code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable. (Ord. 79-3,
1979)
9-16-4: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code,
it shall be held to mean the village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois.
   (B)   Wherever the term "Corporation Counsel" is used in the Fire Prevention
Code, it shall be held to mean the Village Attorney for the Village of Posen,
Cook County, Illinois.
   (C)   Whenever the words "Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention" are used
in the Fire Prevention Code, they shall mean the Fire Chief of the Village of
Posen, Illinois.
   (D)   Whenever the words "authority having jurisdiction" are used in the
Life Safety Code, it shall be held to mean the Fire Chief of the Village of
Posen, Illinois.
   (E)   Whenever the word "permit" is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it
shall be held to mean the business license issued by the Village Clerk of the
Village of Posen, Illinois.
   (F)   Whenever the term "explosive" is used in this Chapter, it shall
include any chemical compound and any mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustible ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by
detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden
generation of highly heated gases so that the resultant gaseous pressures are
capable of producing destructive effects; and the term "explosives" shall
include fixed ammunition, fireworks and other manufactured articles which
contain explosives as defined above, but not fuses so constructed and packed as
to render explosion impossible.
9-16-5: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to store explosives within the Village.
9-16-6: ABOVEGROUND TANKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to store flammable liquids in aboveground tanks within the
Village.
9-16-7: UNDERGROUND STORAGE:
It shall be unlawful to store flammable liquids in underground tanks within the
Village except as may be permitted by the granting of a special use permit as
provided in
Chapter 9A, Title XI, of the Posen Village Code.
9-16-8: BULK STORAGE PROHIBITED:
The limits referred to in Section 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code, in which
bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is prohibited shall be defined as the
entire area within the corporate limits of the Village.
9-16-9: TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle containing explosives on any street
in the Village except in compliance with the following rules 1 :
   (A)   No such vehicle shall be so operated unless it is marked, loaded and
equipped in full compliance with all applicable Village, State and Federal laws
and regulations.
   (B)   No vehicle carrying explosives shall be parked or permitted to stand
anywhere in the Village longer than is necessary to make a lawful delivery;
provided, that the standing of such vehicle made necessary by mechanical
trouble, traffic conditions, accident or in obedience to the direction of a
policeman or traffic signals shall not be considered a violation of this
Section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle carrying explosives on any
street in the Village that is so slippery from ice, snow or form any other
causes to be unsafe for driving.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquids is
disabled in the Village, warning flags or lights shall be placed as required by
law; and it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle carrying explosives to
remain unattended at any such time.
   (E)   No work involving danger of sparks, fire, friction or concussion which
might cause an explosion shall be performed on any vehicle carrying explosives;
and no such vehicle shall be brought into or kept in any garage in the
Municipality; nor shall such vehicle carrying explosives be permitted to remain
anywhere in the Village under any circumstances for a period of more than five
(5) hours.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to transport or store liquid nitroglycerine
anywhere in the Village.
   (G)   The provisions of this Chapter relating to explosives shall apply to
all types of explosives, blasting agents and fireworks, except it shall not
apply to the transportation of nitroglycerine in tablet or capsule form for
medical use, nor to the lawful transportation or storage of properly packed
ammunition in quantities not exceeding twenty five (25) pounds in weight, nor
to the transportation of ammunition by the Armed Forces of the United States of
America or the State of Illinois or by policemen or other conservators of the
peace in the performance of their duties.
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  10-8-19 of this Code.
9-16-10: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
The storage, transportation, sale and use of flammable liquids of all types
shall be governed by the Fire Prevention Code and by applicable Village and
State of Illinois laws. The Fire Chief of the Village shall have, and is hereby
granted, the authority to increase the requirements of said State laws where
the safety of life or property is endangered by the proposed or actual storage,
transportation, sale or use of any type of flammable liquid.
9-16-11: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS:
The storage, sale, transportation and use of liquefied petroleum gas shall be
governed by the Fire Prevention Code and by applicable Village and State of
Illinois laws. The Fire Chief of the Village shall have, and is hereby granted,
the authority to increase the requirements of said State law where the safety
of life or property is endangered by the proposed or actual storage, sale,
transportation or use of liquefied petroleum gas.
9-16-12: AMENDMENTS, EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Article 14, section 14.2 of the Fire Prevention Code shall be amended
to include all buildings and structures except the interior of dwellings.
   (B)   The installation of portable fire extinguishers shall be governed by
the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association Standard No. 10,
1975, as amended.
   (C)   The maintenance and use of portable fire extinguishers shall be
governed by the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association
Standard No. 10A, 1975, as amended.
   (D)   The Fire Prevention Bureau shall have the authority to require such
smoke and heat venting devices or other fire safety features which may be
necessary for safety and are consistent with nationally recognized good
practice.
   (E)   Gas appliances and gas piping shall be installed according to the
National Fire Protection Association No. 54 pamphlet; "Installation of Gas
Appliances and Gas Piping", 1974 Edition.
   (F)   In the event of a conflict between the requirements of the Fire
Prevention Code, the Life Safety Code, or other parts of this Chapter and any
other local, State or Federal ordinance, law or regulation, the most
restrictive regulation shall apply, providing that public safety is secured and
that substantial justice is done.
9-16-13: MODIFICATIONS:
The Board of Trustees and Mayor shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties
in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided that the
spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed, and
the recommendation of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon, shall be
entered upon the records of the Village and Fire Department. The Board of
Trustees and Mayor may impose such conditions as they deem appropriate, in
their discretion, prior to the issuance of any modification; and said
modification may be revoked at any time in the event said conditions are not
fulfilled, and continually complied with, by the applicant.
9-16-14: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the officers of the Fire Department and the members of
the Fire Prevention Bureau to enforce the provisions of the Fire Prevention
Bureau to enforce the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, the Life Safety
Code and this Chapter. For said purpose, upon approval of the Fire Chief,
officers and members may sign complaints, appear in court, and testify as to
the facts of any violation.
9-16-15: PERMITS:
The Board of Trustees and Village President, upon recommendation by the Fire
Chief, may require permits for additional materials, other processes, or
further occupancies in addition to those now stated in the Fire Prevention and
Life Safety Codes. Said permits, as required, shall be stated and designated,
by adoption of resolutions or ordinances in the official minutes and records of
the Board of Trustees and Village President.
9-16-16: FIRE LANES ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to obstruct the use
of any public fire hydrant or to place any material or vehicle in front thereof
or within fifteen feet (15') thereof as measured at any curb as stated herein.
Said distance shall be measured from that point on the curb perpendicular to
the exact location of the public fire hydrant. Any and all material or any
vehicle found to be such an obstruction or within said fifteen feet (15') may
be immediately removed by any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost
and expense of the owner or claimant thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any area marked as "Fire Lane, No
Parking", or by a similar notice.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to stop, stand, park or obstruct in any way a
fire lane, fire zone or any other area reserved and designated for Posen fire
department use. (Ord. 79-3, 1979)
9-16-17: FALSE ALARMS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, negligently,
maliciously or wilfully give any false alarm to any police or fire station
through the use of any telephone, radio or emergency alarm box.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open any emergency alarm box
for a purpose other than reporting an emergency matter to the fire or police
departments or to break, cut, injure, deface, damage or in any manner meddle or
interfere with any emergency alarm box or any village or public utility
electrical wires, poles, conduit or apparatus. (Ord. 79-3, 1979)
9-16-18: FIRE HYDRANTS USE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the members of the
fire department for the uses and purposes of such department and those
specially authorized by the department of public works, to open any public fire
hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully, intentionally,
negligently or carelessly break, damage, injure or interfere with any of the
public fire hydrants in the village. (Ord. 79-3, 1979)
9-16-19: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that the violation continues after due notice has been
served, in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   Restraining Actions: Anyone affected by any such order shall within
thirty (30) days after service of such order apply to a court of record for an
order restraining the code official from razing and removing such structure or
parts thereof. The court shall determine whether the order of the code official
is reasonable, and if found reasonable, the court shall dissolve the
restraining order, and if found not reasonable, the court shall continue the
restraining order or modify it as the circumstances may require. (Ord. 99-17,
7-13-1999)
9-16-20: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of the fire
prevention code, life safety code or this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining words, phrases,
clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of said codes, since the same would
have been enacted without the incorporation in said codes of any such invalid
or unconstitutional word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section. (Ord.
79-3, 1979)
TITLE X
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS AND CODES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
10-1-3: Motor Vehicle Theft Reporting Act Adopted
10-1-4: Child Passenger Protection Act Adopted
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department,
and ambulances.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The closely built up business portion of this village.
CROSSWALK: The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections. Any portion
of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public works and buildings, of the state of
Illinois acting directly or through its duly authorized officers or agents.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may meet or intersect.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
For the purpose of this chapter, motor vehicles as a class shall be divided
into two (2) divisions, viz.:
   (A)   First: Those vehicles which are designed and used for the carrying of
not more than seven (7) persons.
   (B)   Second: Those vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or
carrying freight and also those vehicles or motor cars which are designed and
used for the carrying of more than seven (7) persons.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground
but excluding a tractor.
PARKWAY: The portion between the curb line or the lateral lines of a roadway
and the adjacent property line, except that where a sidewalk has been
constructed or laid, it is the portion between the curb line or the lateral
lines of a roadway to the nearest portion of the sidewalk.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSONS: Every natural person, firm or copartnership, association, or
corporation.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The closely built up resident portion of this village.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected, or is so marked or
indicated, by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STATE HIGHWAYS: Whenever the term "state highways" is used in this title it
shall be construed to include the highways, as defined in the act entitled: "An
act in relation to state highways".
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
STREETCAR: A car other than a railroad train for transporting persons or
property and operated upon rails principally within this village.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: The portion of this village other than the closely built up
business and residence districts.
THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with the "uniform act regulating traffic on highways" placed or
erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1965 Code)
10-1-2: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The "Illinois vehicle code" 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 and
following, and any subsequent amendments thereto is hereby adopted by
reference. (Ord. 2004-01, 1-27-2004)
10-1-3: MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT REPORTING ACT ADOPTED:
The "motor vehicle theft reporting act" 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1 and
following, and any subsequent amendments thereto are hereby adopted by
reference. (Ord. 2004-01, 1-27-2004)
10-1-4: CHILD PASSENGER PROTECTION ACT ADOPTED:
The "child passenger protection act" 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 and
following, and any subsequent amendments thereto are hereby adopted by
reference. (Ord. 2004-01, 1-27-2004)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Bicycles And Animals
10-2-2: Obedience To Police Officers
10-2-3: Police To Enforce; Make Reports
10-2-1: BICYCLES AND ANIMALS:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to a driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. (1965 Code)
10-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
policeman. Except in case of emergency it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the chief of police to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1965
Code)
10-2-3: POLICE TO ENFORCE; MAKE REPORTS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police to patrol the public highways and
to make arrests for violation of the provisions of this title.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police department to investigate traffic
accidents and to arrest and obtain prosecution of those persons guilty of
violations of law causing or contributing to accidents.
   (C)   The police department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports and shall file such accident reports or cards
referring to them alphabetically by location. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: First Division
10-3-2: Second Division
10-3-3: Intersection; Curves; etc.
10-3-4: Complaint
10-3-5: Speed Restrictions; When Not Applicable
10-3-1: FIRST DIVISION:
No person shall drive a vehicle of the first division as defined in
10-1-1 of this Title, upon any public highway in this Municipality at a speed
higher than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and the use
of the way or so to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any
person. If the rate of speed of any motor vehicle of said First Division,
operated upon any public highway in this Municipality where the same passes
through the business district exceeds twenty (20) miles an hour, or if the rate
of speed of any such motor vehicle operated on any public highway in this
Municipality where the same passes through the residence district exceeds
twenty (20) miles an hour, or if the rate of speed of any such motor vehicle
operated on any public highway in this Municipality in a suburban district,
exceeds thirty (30) miles an hour, such rates of speed shall be prima facie
evidence that the person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of
speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and
use of the way or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of
any person.
10-3-2: SECOND DIVISION:
The speed of all vehicles of the second division, as defined in
10-1-1 of this Title shall always be reasonable and safe and be governed by the
general requirements of Section
10-3-1 of this Chapter.
10-3-3: INTERSECTION; CURVES; ETC.:
The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima facie
limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
10-3-4: COMPLAINT:
In the event of charge of violation of this Chapter the complaint, also the
summons or notice to appear, shall specify the speed at which the defendant is
alleged to have driven, also the prima facie speed applicable within the
district or at the location.
10-3-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS; WHEN NOT APPLICABLE:
The prima facie speed limitations set forth in this Chapter shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls and the
drivers thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren. or exhaust whistle. This
provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
street, nor shall it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the
consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
CHAPTER 4
SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Obedience; Traffic Control Devices
10-4-2: Exemption; Authorized Emergency Vehicle
10-4-3: Traffic Control Legend
10-4-4: Flashing Signals
10-4-5: Unauthorized Signs
10-4-6: Interference With Signs
10-4-7: No Turn on Red Signals
10-4-1: OBEDIENCE; TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
No driver of a vehicle or motorman of a street car shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of the "Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways" or the
provisions of this Code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Title.
10-4-2: EXEMPTION; AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
The provisions of this Title regulating the operation, parking and standing of
vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in Section
10-1-1 of this Title, except as follows: A driver when operating any such
vehicle in an emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer,
may:
   (A)   Park or stand, notwithstanding provisions of this Title.
   (B)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation.
The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequences of his reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
10-4-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words
"Go", "Caution," or "Stop" or exhibiting different colored lights successively
the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn.
      2.   But vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the same time such
signal is exhibited.
      3.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed, across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow or "Caution" when showing following the green or "Go" Signal:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop can not be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone except that where warranted the Department of this Municipality on
highways under their respective jurisdiction and control, may permit vehicles
to make a right turn under rules and regulations to be established by the
Department or this Municipality, as the case may be.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal may cautiously enter the roadway
unless he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall not
interfere with other traffic or endanger pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
10-4-4: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signals). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
10-4-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display any device,
other than an official warning or direction sign or signal authorized by
statute or ordinance, upon or in view of any street, if such device purports to
be, or is an imitation of any official warning or direction sign or signal, or
directs or purports to direct traffic. Any such unauthorized device is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and may be removed by any policeman.
10-4-6: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic signs or signals. (1965 Code)
10-4-7: NO TURN ON RED SIGNALS:
   (A)   Obedience to and Required Traffic-Control Devices: The driver of any
vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-control device
applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
Chapter. (Ord. 87-25, 12-8-87)
CHAPTER 5
PASSING STREETCARS
(Rep. by Ord. 86-26, 10-28-1986)
CHAPTER 6
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
10-6-1: Stop Signs
10-6-2: Emerging From Alley; Private Driveway
10-6-3: Stopping; Standing; Parking
10-6-4: Restrictions
10-6-5: Parking At Right-Hand Curb
10-6-6: Impounding Of Vehicles
10-6-7: Liability Of Registered Owner
10-6-8: Duty To Erect Signs
10-6-9: No Parking On Illinois State Route 83
10-6-10: Handicapped Parking
10-6-1: STOP SIGNS:
   (A)   The department with reference to state highways under its jurisdiction
and the municipality with reference to other highways under its jurisdiction
may designate through highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances
thereto or may designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like
signs at one or more entrances to such intersections.
   (B)   Every said sign shall bear the word "stop" in letters not less than
six inches (6") in height, except at intersections where flashing light signals
are used, in which case the letters shall not be less than four inches (4") in
height. Every stop sign shall be located as near as practical at the property
line of the highway at the entrance to which the stop must be made, or at the
nearest line of the crosswalk thereat, or, if none, at the nearest line of the
roadway.
   (C)   Every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar shall stop
at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering an intersection
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
(1965 Code)
10-6-2: EMERGING FROM ALLEY; PRIVATE DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle within a business, residence or suburban district
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk area
extending across any alley or private driveway. (1965 Code)
10-6-3: STOPPING; STANDING; PARKING:
   (A)   The department shall have authority to prohibit parking or to
prescribe time limits for parking on any street under the control and
jurisdiction of the department or for the maintenance of which the department
is responsible, in such manner as to promote public convenience and safety and
so as to facilitate traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the department
regarding parking upon any specific street or streets shall become effective on
and after the date of the erecting of appropriate signs indicating such
regulations. Any such signs may be erected either by the department or by this
municipality with the approval of the department.
   (B)   This action shall not apply to the drivers of any vehicles which are
disabled on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position. (1965 Code)
10-6-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, lawn and any other off-street surface that is not an
all-weather, dustless, hard surface (seal coat or better) designed to
accommodate parking;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway; (Ord. 01-06, 5-22-2001)
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach of any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the department or this Municipality on highways under their respective
jurisdiction indicate a different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      15.   It shall be unlawful for an operator of any vehicle, including a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, trailer, semitrailer, truck tractor, farm tractor,
road tractor, road or construction equipment to park for a longer time than
indicated on roadway;
      16.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, except a private
passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of not more than seven (7)
passengers, on any street for a longer period than is necessary for the
reasonably expeditious loading and unloading of such vehicle;
      17.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the
purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon which
merchandise is being offered to the public for sale; (1965 Code)
      18.   It shall be unlawful for an operator of any vehicle to park within
a public alley in such a manner or under such condition as to leave available
less than sixteen feet (16') of width of the roadway for the free movement of
vehicular traffic; (Ord. 86-39, 12-9-1986)
      19.   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped on a street during the
times between sunset or sunrise, or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible any vehicle on the street from a
distance of two hundred feet (200'), there shall be displayed upon said vehicle
one or more lights on the front of said vehicle and one or more red lights on
the rear of said vehicle, which shall be visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of two hundred feet (200');
      20.   No motor vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of said
vehicle is running, or while standing upon a perceptible grade without
effectively setting the brakes and turning the wheels of such vehicle toward
the curb or the side of the street or highway; (1965 Code)
      21.   It shall be unlawful for any resident to block any area of the
public street for the purpose of saving a parking space for their personal use
during any type of weather. (Ord. 2019-03, 2-26-2019)
   (B)   No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful or start
or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change, or
move the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism of a standing
motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner
or driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (1965 Code)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on, alongside, or at the curb
of, the west side of McKinley Avenue between 144th Street and 145th Street
within the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and/or Saturday, except by a
permit issued by the Chief of Police as stated herein.
The Chief of Police, upon application, shall issue a permit to permit the
parking of a vehicle, or vehicles, on, alongside, or at the curb of, the west
side of McKinley Avenue between 144th Street and 145th Street, during the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) P.M. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and/or Saturday, for the purpose of attendance by
the occupants thereof at funeral and/or church services being conducted at St.
Stanislaus Church, 14400 McKinley Avenue, which permit shall limit said parking
to the time of said funeral and/or church services. (Ord. 80-10, 6-10-1980)
10-6-5: PARKING AT RIGHT-HAND CURB:
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked on streets of this Municipality
forming a part of the State highway system where there is an adjacent curb
shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle
parallel with and within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb.
   (B)   Except where angle parking is permitted by local ordinance on streets
other than streets forming a part of the State highway system, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall be so
stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with and
within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb. (1965 Code)
10-6-6: IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES:
Every vehicle parked in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance which may be abated by any police officer by removing and conveying
such vehicle to the vehicle pound or pounds designated by the Chairman of the
Police and Fire Department Committee. Before the owner or person entitled to
possession of any legally impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove the
same, he shall furnish evidence of ownership or right to possession, and shall
pay for the cost of towing or removal to the vehicle pound, and the cost of
storage for each day or fraction thereof in said pound.
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any provisions of
this paragraph and chapter prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to penalty therefor. (1965 Code)
10-6-7: LIABILITY OF REGISTERED OWNER:
Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter
prohibiting or restricting parking, and there is no person in attendance upon
such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a notice to
appear in court to answer the charge of such violation, any police officer
observing such violation may attach to the vehicle used in such violation, a
notification or ticket, so that the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered may appear before the proper court on a day certain to be named on
such ticket, and answer to the charges of such violation.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the vehicle to
which said ticket or notification is attached, to remove same from said
vehicle. (1965 Code)
10-6-8: DUTY TO ERECT SIGNS:
It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Streets to determine and designate
the character of all official signs, which purport to direct the movement of
traffic, and he shall post adequate signs, where such signs may be necessary,
for the effective enforcement of this chapter. (1965 Code)
10-6-9: NO PARKING ON ILLINOIS STATE ROUTE 83:
It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle along and upon either
side of Illinois State Route 83 (147th Street, Sibley Boulevard) within the
Village of Posen, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic,
or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control
device or for the loading or unloading of passengers for a period not longer
than three (3) minutes or for the loading or unloading of property for a period
not longer than fifteen (15) minutes. (Ord. 78-17, 9-26-1978)
10-6-10: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
   HANDICAPPED PARKING PERMIT: An automobile license plate issued by the Motor
Vehicle Division of the Secretary of State's Office, displayed on a vehicle,
and which, on its face, indicates that the owner and operator of such vehicle
is a handicapped person and is thus entitled to display such special license
plate on his or her motor vehicle; or, valid similar license plate issued by
another state; or, a decal or other device issued in accordance with State law,
by the Village or any authorized unit of government, to any handicapped driver,
using the international handicapped symbol consisting of a stylized wheelchair
on a dark or blue background.
   PARKING SPACES: A space on private property within the Village or on a
public street or thoroughfare, for the parking of motor vehicles, which space
is identified by plainly marked stripes painted on the surface of the paving.
   RESTRICTED HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACE: A parking space, as defined above,
which also is marked by signs or markings on the surface of the paving, clearly
indicating such space is reserved and may be used only by handicapped persons.
Such signs or markings shall include the international handicapped symbol
consisting of a stylized wheelchair on a dark or blue background.
   (B)   Handicapped Parking Permit Required: No person shall park a motor
vehicle in a restricted handicapped parking space unless such person is a
handicapped person driving a motor vehicle equipped with a handicapped parking
permit. However, no person shall be convicted of violating this section if such
person in fact met the criteria for obtaining a handicapped parking permit at
the time of the parking, even if the parking permit had not been obtained or
was not displayed on the vehicle.
   (C)   Use Of Parking Space: No person shall park a motor vehicle in any
parking space in such a manner that such motor vehicle protrudes over and into
any other parking space or restricted handicapped parking space immediately
contiguous to it so as to prevent the use of the latter space by another motor
vehicle. (Ord. 87-1, 1-13-1987)
CHAPTER 7
LIGHTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Lights Required
10-7-2: Identification Lamps
10-7-3: Projecting Load
10-7-4: Lamps on Vehicles; Equipment
10-7-5: Spot Lamps; Auxiliary Driving Lamps
10-7-6: Use of Headlights
10-7-7: Number Required; Permitted
10-7-8: Special Restrictions
10-7-1: LIGHTS REQUIRED:
When upon any highway in this Municipality, during the period from sunset to
sunrise, every motorcycle shall carry one lighted lamp and every motor vehicle
two (2) lighted lamps showing white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber
tint, visible at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction toward which
each motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding, and each motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer shall also throw a red light visible for at least five
hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction.
10-7-2: IDENTIFICATION LAMPS:
The number plate at the back of the motor vehicle shall be firmly attached to
the vehicle so that it will not swing loosely, and shall be so lighted that the
number on said plate shall be plainly legible and intelligible at a distance of
fifty feet (50').
10-7-3: PROJECTING LOAD:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in Section
10-7-1 of this Chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or
lantern required under this Section shall be in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear of such load a red flag of cloth not less than sixteen inches
(16") square.
10-7-4: LAMPS ON VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT:
All vehicles including animal drawn vehicles not hereinbefore specifically
required to be equipped with lamps, shall at the times specified in Section
10-7-1 of this Chapter be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lanterns
exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear.
10-7-5: SPOT LAMPS; AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle maybe equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and
every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor
more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
inches (12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level upon which
the vehicle stands.
10-7-6: USE OF HEADLIGHTS:
On approaching another vehicle proceeding in an opposite direction and when
without not less than three hundred fifty feet (350') of same, any person in
charge of a motorcycle or motor vehicle equipped with electric headlight or
headlights shall dim or drop such headlight or headlights.
10-7-7: NUMBER REQUIRED; PERMITTED:
At all times specified in Section
10-7-1 of this Chapter at least two (2) lighted lamps shall be displayed, one
on each side at the front of every motor vehicle except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required is also
equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the front
thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three hundred (300)
candle power, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps on the front
of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway.
10-7-8: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
highway with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from
directly in front thereof. This Section shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   No person, other than members of the Fire Department, shall drive any
vehicle displaying a blue light thereon.
   (C)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a means
for indicating a right or left turn.
CHAPTER 8
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Approaching For Left Turn
10-8-2: Approaching For Right Turn
10-8-3: Driver's Signal
10-8-4: Emerging From Alley; Driveway; Garages
10-8-5: Driving On Sidewalks; Safety Zones
10-8-6: Right Of Way
10-8-7: Following Fire Apparatus
10-8-8: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway
10-8-9: Following Too Closely
10-8-10: Reckless Driving
10-8-11: Careless Driving
10-8-12: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
10-8-13: Bicycles; Motorcycles
10-8-14: Unattended Vehicles
10-8-15: Clinging To Vehicles
10-8-16: Toy Vehicles
10-8-17: Riding On Running Boards
10-8-18: Through Streets
10-8-19: Transporting Inflammable Materials
10-8-20: Traffic Signals
10-8-21: Meeting; Overtaking School Bus
10-8-22: Operation Of Vehicles On Unimproved Streets And Public Property
10-8-1: APPROACHING FOR LEFT TURN:
The driver of any vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection or into
any alley or driveway shall approach the point of turning in the traffic lane
nearest the center of the roadway. (1965 Code)
10-8-2: APPROACHING FOR RIGHT TURN:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at any intersection
shall approach the point of turning in the traffic lane nearest the right hand
edge or curb of the roadway. (1965 Code)
10-8-3: DRIVER'S SIGNAL:
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, start or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his action.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or other device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that hand and arm signal would not be visible, both to
the front and the rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such
a lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required, given by hand and arm signal, shall be
given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such
signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward or moved with a sweeping
motion from the rear to the front.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed, hand and arm extended downward. (1965
Code)
10-8-4: EMERGING FROM ALLEY; DRIVEWAY; GARAGES:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or across a sidewalk
line projected across such alley, sound the horn of said vehicle, and shall
exercise unusual care in driving said vehicle upon said sidewalk or across such
line. (1965 Code)
10-8-5: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS; SAFETY ZONES:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone. (1965 Code)
10-8-6: RIGHT OF WAY:
Subject to certain exemptions of this Chapter, when two (2) vehicles reach an
intersection at approximately the same time, the driver of a vehicle shall give
the right of way to the driver of a vehicle approaching along an intersecting
street from the right, and shall have the right of way over those approaching
from the left. (1965 Code)
10-8-7: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
Upon the sounding of gongs or warning devices used upon fire apparatus or fire
patrol vehicles, drivers shall draw their vehicles as near to the right hand
curb as is reasonably possible and shall remain standing until such fire
apparatus has passed. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other
than one on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a
fire alarm, closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the Fire Marshal
or the assistant in command. (1965 Code)
10-8-8: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Any driver of a vehicle upon meeting another vehicle shall turn to the right
side of the roadway so far as may be necessary in order to avoid collision with
such vehicle. Further provided that it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
upon the left hand side of any roadway except where necessary because of
obstructions.
10-8-9: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle, upon overtaking another vehicle, shall
pass on the left side of the overtaken vehicle. When requested to do so, any
driver of a vehicle traveling upon any street shall as soon as practicable turn
to the right, so as to allow any overtaking vehicle free passage to the left of
the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division, or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle, when traveling upon a roadway outside of a
business or residence district, shall not follow within three hundred feet
(300') of another motor vehicle of the second division, or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle. The provisions of this Subsection shall not be
construed to prevent overtaking and passing nor shall the same apply upon any
lane specially designated for use by motor vehicles of the second vision.
10-8-10: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in a reckless or wanton manner or
so as to unnecessarily endanger life or property.
10-8-11: CARELESS DRIVING:
Any person driving a vehicle in a manner whereby the life or property of a
person is endangered shall be guilty of negligent and careless driving.
10-8-12: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No vehicle shall be operated or al lowed to remain upon any street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
10-8-13: BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat attached to said vehicle.
10-8-14: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is running;
and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline unless the
vehicle is secured against moving.
10-8-15: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, on any street, riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle, to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to
any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
10-8-16: TOY VEHICLES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or
other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
   (B)   No person shall use, operate, or be in control of any all-terrain
vehicle, go-kart, mini-bike, motorized bicycle, motorized skateboard or
motorized scooter, or off-road motorcycle, or similar vehicle, not licensed
under the Illinois Vehicle Code, on any public street, public sidewalk, parking
lot, or on any private property without the express consent of the owner.
      1.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, or state
vehicle operated by an employee in the course of his or her duties.
         b.   Any of the above referenced vehicles or devices when
participating in a parade authorized by the Village.
         c.   Any motorized wheelchair or vehicle designed for and used by a
person with disabilities or an electronic personal assistance mobility device,
as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-117.7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (C)   Violators of the ordinance are subject to a Village of Posen citation
and a fine set as follows: $50 for the first offense, $100 for the second
offense, $200 for the third offense, plus the cost of impoundment of the toy
vehicle. (Ord. 2020-17, 5-26-2020)
10-8-17: RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fender, running board or
outside step of any vehicle.
10-8-18: THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets are hereby declared to be through streets: 144th and
145th Streets; throughout their length.
Every driver of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting with any through
street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon the through street unless a
"Go" signal is given at such intersection by a traffic officer or a traffic
signal.
10-8-19: TRANSPORTING INFLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
Any vehicle transporting inflammable materials through the Village will do so
by traveling on 147th Street only.
10-8-20: TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest track
of such railroad and shall not proceed until he can safely do so.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse such grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman
gives a signal of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse a grade crossing after crossing gates have been lowered.
   (D)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus, or any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquid as cargo,
shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet
(10') from the tracks and shall listen and look in both directions from which a
train might come, before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing.
Provided that the provisions of this Subsection shall not apply when traffic at
the crossing is directed by an officer or stop and go light which gives a "Go"
signal.
10-8-21: MEETING; OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking any school bus
which has stopped on any public highway or street for the purpose of receiving
or discharging any school children shall immediately stop his vehicle and shall
not pass such school bus while such school children are alighting therefrom and
embarking thereon.
   (B)   This Section shall not be applicable unless the school bus shall bear
upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words
"School Bus" in letters not less than four inches (4") in height which can be
removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use as a school bus. (1965 Code)
10-8-22: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON UNIMPROVED STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle or any
other type of motorized vehicle on any public property except on an improved
street or alley. This Section does not apply to vehicles operated by Village
officers, agents or employees during the performance of their official duties.
(Ord. 96-09, 4-9-1996)
CHAPTER 9
VEHICLE CONDITION
SECTION:
10-9-1: Clear Vision
10-9-2: Unnecessary Noise
10-9-3: Horn
10-9-4: Gas; Smoke
10-9-5: Spilling Loads; Debris
10-9-6: Projecting Loads; Width
10-9-7: Brakes
10-9-8: Muffler
10-9-9: Lights
10-9-10: Non-Skid Devices
10-9-11: Tires
10-9-12: Gross Weight
10-9-13: Planking Edge Of Pavement
10-9-1: CLEAR VISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle which is
constructed or loaded so that the driver's view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him a view of
the roadway behind. (1965 Code)
10-9-2: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon the street which makes an
unusually loud or unnecessary noise. (1965 Code)
10-9-3: HORN:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signalling device in efficient working order. Such signalling device shall be
sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of the vehicle,
but such horn or other signalling device shall not be sounded for any purpose
other than as a warning of impending danger.
No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a siren
or gong signalling device. (1965 Code)
10-9-4: GAS; SMOKE:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense clouds of gas or
smoke of such an amount to endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1965 Code)
10-9-5: SPILLING LOADS; DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be loaded or operated in such a manner
that any material loaded in such vehicle or any debris carried therein is
permitted to spill, pour, drip, drop or blow upon the streets, provided that
this shall not apply to the lawful dumping or depositing of building material
or other similar material at any place properly designated for that purpose. It
shall also be unlawful for any person to drop, throw, pour, or eject in any
manner, any debris, refuse, rubbish, waste paper, garbage or any other waste,
from any vehicle upon the streets, parkways or sidewalks.
10-9-6: PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTH:
The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed eight feet (8'),
excepting loads of loose hay, straw, corn fodder or similar farm products,
agricultural implements and threshing machines.
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated upon the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side of the vehicle.
No vehicle, unladen or with a load shall exceed a length of thirty five feet
(35') extreme dimension; a truck trailer and a semi-trailer shall be regarded
as one vehicle for the purpose of determining length.
No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than two (2)
units, and no such combination shall exceed a total length of forty feet (40')
whether with or without a load; but such length limitation shall not apply to
vehicles operated in the day time when transporting poles, pipes, machinery or
other objects which cannot readily be dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at night time by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work; but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show full dimensions of the load.
No part of a load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3') in front
of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
10-9-7: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any street unless such motor
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the State traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanism operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
10-9-8: MUFFLER:
No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient working condition; and the use of a cutout
is prohibited.
10-9-9: LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful to operate or park,on any street, any vehicle not equipped
with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the State law.
10-9-10: NON-SKID DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any street, equipped
with any nonskid devices so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
10-9-11: TIRES:
It shall be unlawful to operate, on any street, any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the State traffic law.
10-9-12: GROSS WEIGHT:
The maximum gross weight to be permitted on the road surface through any axle
of any vehicle shall not exceed sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds per inch of
width of tire upon any one wheel. Provided, further, that the gross weight,
including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load of any self propelled four
(4) wheel vehicle shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) pounds. The gross
weight, including the weight of the vehicle and the maximum load of any self
propelled six (6) or more wheel vehicles, including the weight of the vehicle
and the maximum load, or the gross weight of any self propelled vehicle
operated as a tractor with one semi-trailer, including the weight of said
vehicle and semi-trailer, with their maximum loads, or the gross weight of any
tractor type motor vehicle, including the weight of the vehicle and its maximum
load, shall not exceed forty thousand (40,000) pounds, nor shall any two (2)
axles lie in the same vertical plane, nor shall the axle spacing be less than
forty inches (40") from center to center, provided, that the axle arrangement
shall be such that the proportion of the gross load carried on any axle shall
remain constant; and the gross weight, including the weight of the vehicle and
maximum load, of any trailer or semi-trailer or semi-trailer vehicle pulled or
towed by a motor vehicle shall not exceed thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds.
10-9-13: PLANKING EDGE OF PAVEMENT:
No tractor, traction engine or other metal tired vehicle, or any vehicle
weighing more than two (2) tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its
load, shall drive up onto, off or over the edge of any paved public highway or
over the curb thereof, or sidewalk, without protecting such edge or curb by
putting down solid planks or other suitable device to prevent such vehicles
from breaking off the edges or corners of such pavement or curb, or sidewalk.
CHAPTER 10
DRIVER REGULATION
SECTION:
10-10-1: Age Limit
10-10-2: Liquor; Drugs
10-10-3: Accidents
10-10-1: AGE LIMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person under fifteen (15) years of age to operate
any motor vehicle upon the streets.
10-10-2: LIQUOR; DRUGS:
It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person or any person under the influence of liquor, alcoholic liquor or of a
narcotic drug to operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
10-10-3: ACCIDENTS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle which has collided with any
vehicle, person or property, in such manner as to cause injury or damage, to
fail or refuse to stop immediately, to render such assistance as may be
possible, to give his true name and residence to the injured person or any
other persons requesting the same on behalf of the injured person or the owner
of the property damaged, and to a policeman if one is present. A report of each
such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to
the Chief of Police within twenty four (24) hours after the accident.
CHAPTER 11
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Right of Way
10-11-2: Pedestrians Using Roadway
10-11-3: Signals
10-11-4: Standing on Sidewalk
10-11-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any crosswalk
without the exercise of due and proper care in view of the special use made
thereof by pedestrians.
It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while there is in
such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle is
traveling, any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway or when such
pedestrian shall indicate his intention to cross.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the
purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
10-11-2: PEDESTRIANS USING ROADWAY:
At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most direct
route to the opposite curbing and when crossing at any place other than a cross
walk he shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
10-11-3: SIGNALS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a stop and go
signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway, other
than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
10-11-4: STANDING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as is reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
CHAPTER 11A
SOLICITING ON PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
10-11A-1: Soliciting On Public Ways
10-11A-2: Food Vendor Trucks
10-11A-1: SOLICITING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway or highway for the purpose of
soliciting contributions, business, rides or employment from the driver or
occupant of any vehicle within the Village, except when solicitations are
expressly approved and permission has been granted by the Village President and
Board of Trustees and a business license has been issued by the Clerk.
   (B)   Soliciting on highways and roadways within the Village shall be
allowed only at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full
and complete stop.
   (C)   The soliciting agency shall be registered with the Attorney General as
a charitable organization as provided by "An Act to Regulate Solicitations and
Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes".
   (D)   The soliciting agency shall be liable for any injury or damage to any
person or property during solicitations, which injury or damage is causally
related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent.
   (E)   Any person engaged in the act of soliciting on a roadway or highway
shall be sixteen (16) years of age or older and shall be wearing a high
visibility vest.
   (F)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a highway or roadway
for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while
such vehicle is parked or about to be parked on a highway or roadway.
(Ord. 94-21, 8-24-1994)
10-11A-2: FOOD VENDOR TRUCKS:
   (A)   Definition:
   FOOD VENDOR TRUCKS: Any motor vehicles whose primary purposes is the
distribution of any food stuffs for food vending or sale.
   (B)   License Required: No food vendor truck shall engage in the operation
of selling food within the Village of Posen without first having obtained a
license from the village clerk's office authorizing the same. The village clerk
shall prescribe the form of such license. All licenses shall be prominently
displayed on the food vendor truck. No vending through a food truck of food
and/or other human consumables shall be permitted unless it meets the
definition of food vendor truck as defined by this chapter.
      1.   Licenses shall be valid during each calendar year, beginning May 1
and ending October 31.
      2.   Licenses shall be renewed on an annual basis.
      3.   The maximum number of licenses issued for food vending trucks is
seven (7) such licenses in any given year.
      4.   The license fee for a food vendor truck shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      5.   In the event that one person or company operates more than one
vendor food truck in the Village of Posen, each such food truck shall require a
separate license.
      6.   Issuance of such licenses shall require inspection by the village
health inspector, and proof of all other inspections required by Cook County
and the State of Illinois.
      7.   Issuance of such licenses shall require proof of insurance as
required by the village.
      8.   Any license issued for the operation of a food vendor truck shall
not be transferable.
   (C)   Locations Of Operation: Food vendor trucks are limited to the
following locations only: South Blaine Avenue and Veterans Parkway, the
American Legion Hall Parking Lot, South Division Street and Walter Zimny Drive,
and the Community Center Parking Lot at 14348 S. Campbell Avenue.
   (D)   Days And Hours Of Operation: Food vendor trucks shall only operate on
Saturdays, Sundays, and the village's Farmers Market Days, between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   (E)   Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited: The sale of alcoholic
beverages is prohibited by food vendor trucks.
   (F)   Vehicle Maintenance And Appearance: Food vendor trucks shall be kept
in good mechanical and structural condition. Food vendor trucks shall have a
clean exterior and interior and shall be equipped with signs to alert traffic
to proceed with caution past the truck or cart while it is serving customers.
Each vehicle shall have the company name affixed to it in a professional,
workmanlike manner and in letters that are a minimum of six inches (6") in
height. The company name shall be affixed to each side and rear of the vehicle.
Generators and fuel tanks shall be affixed to the vehicle and shall not be
placed on the ground.
   (G)   Service Area: No service area for the operation of the food truck
shall block, obstruct, or interfere with vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian
flow.
   (H)   Additional Requirements: Any food truck vendor shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Provide appropriate waste receptacles at the site of the unit and
remove all litter, debris and other waste attributable to the vendor on a daily
basis.
      2.   If parked on public streets, vendors shall conform to all applicable
parking regulations.
      3.   Not use any flashing or blinking lights or strobe lights; all
exterior lights over sixty (60) watts shall contain opaque, hood shields to
direct the illumination downward.
      4.   Not use loud music, amplification devices or "crying out" or any
other audible methods to gain attention which causes a disruption or safety
hazard as determined by the village.
      5.   Comply with the village's noise ordinance, sign ordinance and all
other village ordinances.
      6.   Comply with all applicable federal, state and county regulations.
      7.   May have one portable sign that is six (6) square feet, with no
dimension greater than three feet (3') and no height (with legs) greater than
four feet (4'), located within five feet (5') of the unit; and under no
circumstances shall such sign be placed upon the sidewalk or impede pedestrian
and/or vehicle safety.
      8.   Not represent the granting of a license under this chapter as an
endorsement by the village.
      9.   Shall not utilize any electric village or power without the prior
written authorization of the power customer; no power cable or similar device
shall be extended at or across any village street, alley, or sidewalk except in
a safe manner.
   (I)   Public Health Standards: No food, food products, or beverages for
public consumption shall be kept, offered for sale, transported, or handled
except in accordance with the rule and regulations of the State of Illinois and
the Cook County Health Department. In the event a food truck vendor's permit(s)
and/or license(s) is suspended or revoked by either the State of Illinois and/
or the Cook County Health Department, the license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall likewise be suspended or revoked until such time as the State of
Illinois or Cook County Health Department reinstates said permit(s) and/or
license(s).
   (J)   Penalties And Revocation: Any food truck or food truck vendor who
violates any provision of this chapter shall subject them to a civil
infraction, punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day of
violation.
      1.   The license for any food truck or food truck vendor who fails to
meet any requirement of this chapter, violates the provisions of this chapter,
or any other federal, state, or local regulation, makes a false statement on
their application, or conducts activity in a manner adverse to the protection
of public health, safety and welfare shall be subject to immediate revocation,
suspension or fine.
      2.    Any food truck or food truck vendor who violates the provisions of
this chapter shall not be eligible for renewal of a license, or of issuance of
a limited use license, or for participation in any special event, until such
time that such violation is corrected.
(Ord. 2025-17, 7-8-2025)
CHAPTER 12
BUSES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Stopping And Standing
10-12-2: Regulation Of Unscheduled Bus Stops
10-12-1: STOPPING AND STANDING:
   (A)   The driver of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a designated bus stand or bus terminal.
   (B)   The driver of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at any
place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers other than at a
designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading zone, or bus terminal except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The driver of a bus shall enter a bus stop or passenger loading zone
on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such bus not
farther than eighteen inches (18") from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic. (1965 Code)
10-12-2: REGULATION OF UNSCHEDULED BUS STOPS:
   (A)   Definitions: The terms used in this Section
10-12-2 shall be defined as follows:
 
                             A request for approval to make a bus stop in the
                             Village of Posen on a form to be provided by the
APPLICATION:                 Chief of Police of the Village's Police Department
                             that meets all of the requirements of this Section
                             10-12-2.
                             A written notice or permit signed by the Chief of
APPROVAL:                    Police which approves an Application submitted in
                             accordance with this Section
                             10-12-2.
                             Any type of motor vehicle that is designed to
BUS:                         carry, or is actually carrying, more than seven
                             (7) individuals.
CHIEF:                       The Chief of Police of the Village's Police
                             Department.
                             A bus service that operates trips involving
                             dropping off passengers in the Village on a
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: predictable and recurring basis, following a
                             schedule that is published in advance and
                             available to the general public, and provides
                             service in exchange for paying a fare.
                             Any location in the Village of Posen where
                             individuals are dropped off by a Bus that
                             originated from a location outside of Cook County,
UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP:        Illinois that is not providing regularly scheduled
                             service and not operating pursuant to the written
                             approval of the Chief pursuant to Section
                             10-12-2.
 
   (B)   No Unscheduled Bus Stops. It shall be a violation of this Ordinance
for the owner, operator, or driver of any Bus to make an Unscheduled Bus Stop
for the purpose of dropping off passengers in the Village of Posen.
   (C)   Application. The owner, operator, or driver of any Bus that is not
providing Regularly Scheduled Service that desires to make a Bus stop to drop
off passengers in the Village of Posen shall file an Application with the Chief
using a form to be prepared and provided by the Chief. The completed
Application and all required information shall be submitted to the Chief at
least five (5) calendar days prior to the proposed drop off date. The
Application shall include the following information:
      1.   The full name, address, and telephone numbers of the owner,
operator, and driver of the Bus. The mobile phone number of the driver of the
Bus shall also be provided.
      2.   The full name, address, mobile and land-line phone numbers of the
entity(ies) or individual(s) that have either directed, paid for, or financed
the transportation of persons to be dropped off in the Village of Posen by Bus.
      3.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped off in
the Village of Posen, including copies of IDs for said persons to the extent
IDs exist or are in possession of the passengers.
      4.   The name, address, and location in the Village of Posen where the
Bus Applicant requests to drop off passengers.
      5.   The date and time the Bus Applicant proposes to drop off passengers
in the Village of Posen, which shall be between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.
Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.
      6.   The names and addresses of the locations from which Bus passengers
will be picked up from the Bus dropping off in the Village of Posen.
      7.   The full name, address, mobile and land line phone numbers of the
entities or individuals who shall be present in the Village of Posen to meet
the Bus and receive the passengers.
      8.   A detailed plan identifying how the passengers will be temporarily
or permanently cared for, housed, and fed after drop off in the Village of
Posen. This plan shall include full names, addresses, mobile and land line
phone numbers for all persons that will be present at the time and date of the
drop off responsible for the care, housing and feeding of the passengers. The
plan shall be signed by the person(s) or entity(ies) responsible for such
passenger care and at least on additional individual that will be present to
receive the passengers and be responsible for their care
      9.   The person(s) or entity(ies) to receive the passengers shall each of
them sign the Application to certify that they will be responsible for
providing the care and other actions detailed in the plan.
   (D)   Application Approval: Upon receipt of an Application pursuant to this
Section
10-12-2, the Chief shall review the Application and information contained
therein to verify the truth and authenticity of the Application. If the
Application is incomplete or the contents therein cannot be verified, the Chief
shall, in writing, so advise the Applicant of the additional information or
verification needed. If within four (4) calendar days after receiving the
Application, or with four (4) calendar days after receiving additional
information or verification, the Chief, provided the Application is complete
and verified, shall inform the Applicant that the Application is approved for
the stated location and time. The Chief shall further provide a telephone
number to the Applicant or driver to coordinate the arrival of the Bus in the
Village of Posen.
   (E)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this Section
10-12-2 for any individual or entity to violate any of the terms and
requirements of this Section
10-12-2 or engage in any of the following:
      1.   To submit an Application that is false or untrue in any manner.
      2.   For any entity or person to fail in the care, feeding, or housing of
any passengers dropped off in the Village of Posen, or to fail to implement or
perform all of the terms of a detailed plan approved in an Application.
      3.   To make any Unscheduled Bus Stop within the Village of Posen
      4.   Initiating any Bus transportation in the Village of Posen that
requires the approval of an Application without obtaining an Application as
required by this Section
10-12-2.
   (F)   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any provisions of this Section
10-12-2, upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750) for each such offense. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which such
violation shall exist after notification thereof. The Village at its discretion
may enforce this Section
10-12-2 through the Village's Administrative Adjudication system pursuant to
Village Code Chapter 15A or by seeking monetary and injunctive relief in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or any other Court having jurisdiction over the
violator.
   (G)   Seizure and Impoundment of Bus: Whenever a police officer or other
authorized code enforcement officer has reason to believe that a violation of
Section
10-12-2 has occurred; the Bus involved therein is subject to seizure and
impoundment in addition to any other monetary penalty or other remedy that may
be pursued by the Village. The officer shall, in exercising such discretion,
provide for the towing of the Bus to a facility approved by the Village.
      Upon the towing of a Bus the officer shall notify, or make reasonable
attempt to notify, the owner of record, lessee, person claiming ownership or
lessee status, or any person who is found to be in control of the Bus at the
time of the alleged violation, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle
owner's right to request an administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 14B of
Village Code.
      Because of the additional equipment, time, paperwork, and administrative
costs involved in impounding a Bus, the Administrative Tow Fee imposed pursuant
to Section
10-14B-12 of Village Code for a seized and impounded Bus is one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (H)    Administrative Tow Hearing: Administrative Tow Hearings for Bus
towing and impoundment shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 14 B of Village
Code.
   (I)   Disposition of Unclaimed Bus: Any Bus that is not reclaimed or subject
to judicial review within thirty-five (35) days after the Administrative
Hearing Officer issues a final written decision shall be deemed abandoned and
disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law. (Ord. 2023-36, 12-28-
2023)
CHAPTER 13
CODE VIOLATION CITATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-28, 11-9-2004)
CHAPTER 14
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Definitions
10-14-2: Abandonment
10-14-3: Notification
10-14-4: Removal
10-14-5: Record
10-14-6: Ownership
10-14-7: State Police Notice
10-14-8: Reclaim
10-14-9: Sale
10-14-10: Sale When Unknown Owner
10-14-11: Report
10-14-12: Proceeds of Sale
10-14-13: Absence of Liability
10-14-14: Penalty
10-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
HIGHWAY means any street, alley, or public way within the Village of Posen.
ABANDONED VEHICLE means all motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
(7) consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE means any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years
of age or older.
10-14-2: ABANDONMENT:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in this Village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in this Village is unlawful except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the Chief of the Police Department of the Village, after a
waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired.
10-14-3: NOTIFICATION:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this State, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Village
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
Village. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Posen Police
Department shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of
the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The
towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a
record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided
in this Chapter.
10-14-4: REMOVAL:
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this Village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this Village.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this
Village.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this Village, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
10-14-5: RECORD:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the Posen
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, Vehicle Identification Number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
10-14-6: OWNERSHIP:
When the Posen Police Department does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois State
Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the Illinois State
Police files are searched with negative results, the information contained in
the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the
Illinois State Police. The information determined from these record searches
will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification by certified
mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is
held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
10-14-7: STATE POLICE NOTICE:
When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this State or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having
custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
10-14-8: RECLAIM:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this Section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
10-14-9: SALE:
Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. A least ten (10) days prior to
the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of
the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
In those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
10-14-10: SALE WHEN UNKNOWN OWNER:
When the identify of the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of
age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this Chapter,
the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the manner
authorized by this Chapter without notice to the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this Chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. Mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and, an examination of the Illinois State Police. stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this Chapter.
10-14-11: REPORT:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police Department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
Chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
10-14-12: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this Village is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this Chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
Village Treasury.
10-14-13: ABSENCE OF LIABILITY:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
Chapter.
10-14-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable hereunder as such. (Ord. 70-14; 6-23-70)
CHAPTER 14A
JUNKED OR NONOPERATING VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-14A-1: Definitions
10-14A-2: Exterior Storage of Nonoperating Vehicles as Nuisance 10-14A-3:
Maintaining a Nuisance Prohibited
10-14A-4: Notice to Abate
10-14A-5: Abatement by Village
10-14A-6: Village's Costs Declared Lien
10-14A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
PRIVATE PREMISES: All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walls, driveway and other structure appurtenant
thereto.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
10-14A-2: EXTERIOR STORAGE OF NONOPERATING VEHICLES AS NUISANCE:
It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person in charge of or in control of
private premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to
allow any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise
nonoperating vehicle to remain on such private premises longer than ten (10)
days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the
Village for a longer time than ten (10) days; and no person shall leave any
such vehicle on any property within the Village for a longer time than ten (10)
days; except that this Section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or so located upon the private premises as not to be readily
visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property. This
Chapter shall further not apply with regard to any vehicle on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place, other than in a residential
district, and operated in a lawful manner, when the keeping or maintenance of
such vehicle is necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; or with
regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in
a lawful place and manner by the Village or any other public agency or entity.
10-14A-3: MAINTAINING A NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
10-14A-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the Village or within the
Village's extraterritorial jurisdiction, the Chief of Police of the Village
shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which
such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
   (B)   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
Chapter shall contain:
      1.   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
      2.   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary.
      3.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance.
      4.   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      5.   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the Village will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
   (C)   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal
process may be served pursuant to law.
10-14A-5: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter to abate the same, the Chief of
Police of the Village shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a
statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
10-14A-6: VILLAGE'S COSTS DECLARED LIEN:
Any and all costs incurred by the Village in the abatement of a nuisance under
the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a lien against the property
upon which such nuisance existed, which lien shall be filed, proven and
collected as provided for by law. Such lien shall be notice to all persons from
the time of its recording, and shall bear interest at the legal rate thereafter
until satisfied. (Ord. 86-11, 6-24-86)
CHAPTER 14B
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS AND CHARGES FOR VEHICLE TOWS
SECTION:
10-14B-1: Definitions
10-14B-2: Abandonment Prohibited
10-14B-3: Leaving Wrecked, Non-Operating, Etc., Vehicle On Street
10-14B-4: Inoperable Motor Vehicles Declared Nuisance
10-14B-5: Duty To Comply With Notice To Dispose
10-14B-6: Towing Permitted
10-14B-7: Authorization For Towing
10-14B-8: Pre-Tow Notice For Abandoned Vehicles
10-14B-9: Pre-Tow Hearing Procedures
10-14B-10: Post-Tow Notice For Hazardous And Unlawful Vehicles
10-14B-11: Post-Tow Hearing Procedures
10-14B-12: Administrative Penalties And Disposition Of Vehicle
10-14B-13: Collection Procedures
10-14B-14: Reporting And Record Keeping
10-14B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
stated in this section. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in other Village ordinances and if not defined in any other
Village ordinances, it shall have the meaning ascribed in the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: (A)A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way
and:
      1.   In such state of disrepair that it is incapable of being driven; or
      2.   That has been unmoved for a period of at least twenty four (24)
hours and, because of its condition or the period during which it has not been
moved or some other circumstance, appears to have been, and will be presumed to
have been, abandoned by its owner; or
   (B)   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any
other ordinances of the Municipality, and which does not fall into the
categories of "hazardous" or "unlawful" vehicles, and therefore is not subject
to an immediate tow.
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE: (A)A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is
disabled or cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the
vehicle; or
   (B)   A vehicle that presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare
of the members of the public; or
   (C)   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a public street, way or alley that
is impeding the orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to
pedestrians and other operators of vehicles; or
   (D)   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for snow removal from a public
street, way or alley; or
   (E)   A vehicle which is parked in a fire lane on private property, provided
that the Village has entered into a specific agreement with the owner of said
property with respect to the enforcement of fire lane violations.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to the vehicle or the right of possession
of the vehicle.
UNLAWFUL VEHICLE: (A)A vehicle that has been reported stolen or is the subject
of a search and seizure by the Police Department; or
   (B)   A vehicle parked in violation of State of Illinois Statutes or Village
ordinances which prohibit parking at the location in question or which prohibit
parking during specified hours or which prohibit parking for the period of time
for which the vehicle has been parked; or
   (C)   A vehicle when the operator of such vehicle has been charged with
driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs or driving
while license is revoked or suspended.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except devices
moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks,
and snowmobiles. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the Village, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the Village for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-3: LEAVING WRECKED, NON-OPERATING, ETC., VEHICLE ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street or highway in the Village. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-
2009)
10-14B-4: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE:
Inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-5: DUTY TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO DISPOSE:
All persons are required to dispose of any abandoned or inoperative motor
vehicles under their control or on their property upon written notice received
from the Corporate Authorities or from the Chief of Police or any member of his
department designated by him commanding such disposition of such abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-6: TOWING PERMITTED:
Any hazardous, abandoned or unlawful vehicle may be towed by the Village or its
designee from any highway, street or other public location, provided that the
procedures hereinafter set forth in this chapter are followed. (Ord. 2009-01,
2-10-2009)
10-14B-7: AUTHORIZATION FOR TOWING:
The towing of vehicles by the Village, or by its approved towing service
operators or relocators on behalf of the Village, shall be authorized only by
the Police Department and only under the circumstances herein provided. Towed
vehicles shall be impounded at facilities designated by the Police Department
until lawfully claimed or disposed of pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-101 et seq.
   (A)   Towing Without Notice; Immediate Tows: Hazardous or unlawful vehicles
may be towed without prior notice, except that the police officer shall notify
any person who identifies himself to the police officer as the owner of the
vehicle of the fact of the vehicle's seizure and of the vehicle owner's right
to request a post-tow administrative hearing to be conducted under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Stolen Vehicles: When an unlawful vehicle is one that has been
reported as stolen, the owner should be, when practicable, notified by
telephone or other means and given the opportunity to claim or move the
vehicle, if he so wishes, to avoid incurring the expenses of a police ordered
tow; provided, however, that the vehicle may be towed if the owner permitted
the tow to be made when the vehicle was reported stolen or at any time
thereafter. Within twenty four (24) hours after towing a vehicle pursuant to
this chapter, a notice shall be sent to or personally delivered to the owner of
the vehicle affording the opportunity for a hearing as provided in this
chapter.
   (C)   Towing With Prior Notice; Abandoned Vehicles: Abandoned vehicles may
be towed after the mailing or delivery of prior notice and the affording of an
opportunity for a hearing as provided in this chapter and, to the extent
required by law, after obtaining an appropriate court order allowing the tow
from private property. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-8: PRE-TOW NOTICE FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Notice pursuant to this section shall be personally delivered to the
owner or shall be forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the owner of the vehicle as indicated in the most
current registration list of the Secretary of State. In the event that an out-
of-state vehicle is proposed to be towed, inquiry by computer, telephone or
letter shall be made of the Secretary of State of the particular jurisdiction
for the furnishing of the most current registered name and address of the owner
of the vehicle, and notice shall be mailed as provided herein to the address
furnished, though in no case will the Village be required to delay towing more
than seven (7) days after the date of the mailing or personal delivery of the
notice if no request for a hearing has been received within that seven (7) day
period.
   (B)   A "notice of intent to tow" sticker, with the earliest date upon which
the tow may take place and the address and phone number of the Police
Department, shall be placed on the vehicle. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-9: PRE-TOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner of a vehicle to be towed as an
abandoned vehicle shall have seven (7) days after the date of mailing or
personal delivery of the notice to request, in writing, a pre-tow hearing.
Subsequent to this seven (7) day period, the vehicle may be towed if the owner
has not filed a written hearing request within the seven (7) day period, and
any hearing rights under the provisions of this chapter will be deemed waived.
   (B)   Scheduling Of Pre-Tow Hearings: The pre-tow hearing shall be scheduled
for a date within fourteen (14) days of the mailing or personal delivery of the
pre-tow notice. The Village shall not be required to delay towing longer than
such fourteen (14) day period.
   (C)   Request For Pre-Tow Hearings: Requests for a pre-tow hearing are to be
made to the Office of the Village President. Requests for hearing by persons
who reside more than fifty (50) miles from the Village may be made by mail.
Forms for such requests shall be made available at the Police Department. At
the time of making the request, the owner will be provided a hearing date and
time by mail or in person, as the circumstances require.
   (D)   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The Village President or his designee
shall serve as the Hearing Officer. In no case shall that Hearing Officer be an
individual who was involved in the initial decision to tow the vehicle. The
Hearing Officer shall have the authority to require the presence of the law
enforcement officer who initiated the proposed tow or any other Village
personnel.
   (E)   Nature Of Hearing: The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the
rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation relative to any vehicle. After receiving all relevant
evidence, the Hearing Officer shall make a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the evidence as to whether towing of the vehicle is authorized
by the laws of the State of Illinois or the ordinances of the Village. The
owner shall be provided a copy of such pre-tow hearing decision.
   (F)   Decision To Tow And Rates To Be Charged: If the preponderance of the
evidence supports towing and compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
the Hearing Officer shall direct that the vehicle be towed or, to the extent
required by law, that an appropriate court order for towing from private
property be obtained, with any towing and storage costs to then be imposed upon
the owner thereof. The owner of said vehicle having had such a hearing may
avoid the towing by immediately removing the vehicle from the improper location
to a proper, lawful location and correcting any unlawful condition of the
vehicle.
   (G)   Decision Not To Tow: If the preponderance of the evidence fails to
support towing of the vehicle, the Hearing Officer shall direct that the
vehicle shall not be towed. The Village shall furnish a copy of such decision
to the owner, who may place it inside the vehicle in a location plainly visible
from the outside, such as the dashboard or rear window. No vehicle about which
such a decision has been rendered shall be towed by the Village unless the
circumstances under which the decision was rendered have changed. If at some
subsequent time the Village should wish to tow the vehicle from the same
location, it shall follow the same procedures required for the towing of any
other similarly situated vehicle.
   (H)   Reports And Documents To Be Retained; Contesting Decisions: Originals
or copies of all notices, pre-tow hearing decisions, towing reports, and any
associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The Village or the owner may
contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-10: POST-TOW NOTICE FOR HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES:
   (A)   Mailing Or Delivery Of Notice: Notice pursuant to this section shall
be forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the owner of the hazardous or unlawful vehicle as indicated in the
most current registration list of the Secretary of State unless the notice is
personally delivered to the owner, in which case the date and time of delivery
and the name of the police officer making the delivery shall be noted in the
Police Department records or reports. The notice shall be delivered within
twenty four (24) hours of the tow of the hazardous or unlawful vehicle in the
manner provided in this chapter. In the event that the Village has towed an
out-of-state hazardous or unlawful vehicle, inquiry by computer, telephone or
letter shall be made of the Secretary of State of the particular jurisdiction
for the furnishing of the most current registered name and address of the owner
of the vehicle, and notice shall be mailed as provided herein to the address
furnished.
   (B)   Posting Of Signs Showing Hearing Rights: All approved towing service
operators or relocators shall prominently post at least one (1) sign, with
dimensions of at least twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") indicating
the opportunity and procedures for a hearing to contest the validity of the
towing of the vehicle. The sign shall be placed in locations readily visible to
the public transacting business at any towing facility. If a towing service
operator or relocator performs services for more than one (1) municipality, the
information for contacting the various appropriate Village offices can be
listed in one (1) such sign.
   (C)   Request For Post-Tow Hearings: Requests for hearings are to be made at
the office indicated on the notice within fifteen (15) days of the mailing or
personal delivery of the notification of tow, or release of the vehicle,
whichever occurs first. Otherwise, the right to a hearing shall be deemed
waived. Requests for hearing by persons who reside more than fifty (50) miles
from the Village may be made in person or by mail received within the fifteen
(15) day period.
   (D)   Release Of Motor Vehicles: Before the owner of any impounded vehicle
shall be permitted to remove same, the owner shall furnish evidence of his
identity, ownership of the vehicle, or his right to possession, sign a receipt
for the vehicle, pay the administrative charge to the Village and pay the
amount currently owed for towing and storage fees to the towing service
operator or relocator and otherwise comply with the collection procedures set
forth in this chapter. No towing service operator or relocator that tows a
vehicle pursuant to this chapter shall release that vehicle until it has
received a tow release stamped by the Village pursuant to the collection
procedures set forth in this chapter. The Chief of Police is authorized to
promulgate regulations as to the documents or other proof necessary to
establish these facts. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-11: POST-TOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner of a vehicle towed as an immediate
tow, by or pursuant to the authority of the Police Department as set forth in
this chapter, shall be provided the opportunity for a post-tow hearing to
determine the validity of such tow and any administrative penalty, towing or
storage charges. The hearing will not be determinative of, or adjudicate, any
citation issued relative to any towed vehicle. The owner shall be deemed to
have waived any right to a post-tow hearing unless a hearing is requested
within fourteen (14) days of the mailing or delivery of the post-tow notice, as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Nature Of The Hearing/Hearing Officer: The nature of the hearing and
the appointment of the Hearing Officer shall be the same as set forth above for
pre-tow hearing procedures.
   (C)   Scheduling Of Post-Tow Hearings: The post-tow hearing shall take place
as follows:
      1.   In those instances where the vehicle has been released upon the
deposit of the full payment currently owed for towing and storage charges and
the owner has properly requested a hearing, the hearing shall take place within
fifteen (15) days after the request for a hearing, unless the owner requests a
later date convenient to all parties.
      2.   In those instances where the vehicle remains impounded, the hearing
shall take place, at the option of the owner:
         (a)   On the next day after an owner's demand for such hearing,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays; if such demand is made after three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. or if the unavailability of a necessary witness or evidence
creates a particular difficulty in conducting the hearing on the next calendar
day, then a hearing shall be held on the second day following the request,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays; or
         (b)   If acceptable to the owner, within fifteen (15) days of said
request on a date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   Conduct Of Post-Tow Hearing: The Hearing Officer shall review all
evidence presented by the vehicle owner and the Police Department or other
Village employees and shall make a finding, based upon the preponderance of the
evidence presented, as to the lawful authority for the towing and storage of
the vehicle. The Village must establish such authority by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   (E)   Post-Tow Hearing Decision: For each hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
complete a post-tow hearing decision, attach such decision to the Police
Department's original vehicle towing report, and supply a copy of the decision
to the owner by personal delivery, if the owner is present, or by mail, and a
copy of the decision to the Police Department.
   (F)   Reports And Documents To Be Retained; Contesting Decisions: All
originals or copies of all notices, post-tow hearing decisions, towing reports,
and any associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The Village or the owner of the
vehicle may contest the decision of the Hearing Officer in any manner provided
by law. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
10-14B-12: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE:
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is authorized to be towed by the Village Police
Department, the owner, lessee or entity entitled to lawful possession of said
vehicle shall pay an administrative charge to the Village in the following
amount:
      1.   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per tow if the vehicle was towed
as a result of being abandoned or rendered inoperable as a result of an
accident;
      2.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) per tow if the vehicle was towed as a result
of an occurrence which was outside of the vehicle owner's reasonable control,
including, without limitation, a tow of a stolen vehicle and/or a tow of a
vehicle which was used without the vehicle owner's reasonable knowledge and
control.
      3.   Because of the additional time, testing and paperwork involved, if a
vehicle is towed for a reason other than that set forth in subsection (A)1 or
(A)2 of this section, the owner, lessee or entity entitled to lawful possession
of said vehicle shall pay an administrative tow fee to the Village in the
following amounts:
         (a)   Operation of motor vehicle without a valid driver's license -
five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00);
         (b)   Driving while license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked - five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00);
         (c)   Drug paraphernalia involving a motor vehicle - five hundred
fifty dollars ($550.00);
         (d)   Driving under the influence - one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00);
         (e)   Criminal damage to property - five hundred fifty dollars
($550.00);
         (f)   Controlled substance violation - one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00);
         (g)   Burglary or residential burglary - one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00);
         (h)   Armed robbery - one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00);
         (i)   Aggravated assault or aggravated battery - one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00);
         (j)   Fleeing or attempting to elude pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-204 -
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
         (k)   Any violation of Illinois gun control laws, including but not
limited to unlawful use of firearms, the firearm owners' identification act,
the firearm concealed carry act, or a firearms restraining order - one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00);
         (l)   Any other misdemeanor as defined by village, Illinois or federal
law - five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00);
         (m)   Any other felony as defined by village, Illinois or federal law
- one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
If more than a single criminal violation is alleged, the higher of the above
administrative tow fees may be imposed. The charge imposed pursuant to this
section shall constitute a debt due and owing the Village. The charge imposed
pursuant to this section shall be in addition to any other fees or costs which
the towing service operator or relocator may otherwise charge by law for towing
and storage of the vehicle and any other charges, fines and/or penalties which
the Village may lawfully impose. A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter
shall remain impounded until:
      1.   The charge is paid to the Village pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this chapter, all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
service operator or relocator and all other requirements of this chapter have
been fulfilled by the owner of record of the vehicle involved, agent, in which
case the owner of record shall be given possession of the vehicle; or
      2.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles.
   (B)   If a post-tow hearing is requested by the owner of record as provided
in this chapter, and if it is determined after the hearing that the vehicle was
improperly towed, then the owner of record of the vehicle involved shall be
refunded the administrative penalty and towing charges incurred.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after
a final judgment is rendered in favor of the Village or by the time a final
administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law,
provided, however, that where proceedings have been instituted under State or
Federal Drug Asset Forfeiture Laws, the subject vehicle may not be disposed of
by the Village except as consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-
10-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 4-11-2023)
10-14B-13: COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The Police Department will issue a tow release in accordance with
regulations promulgated by the Police Chief.
   (B)   The Village's Administrative Office will collect the administrative
charge imposed pursuant to this chapter for a vehicle that has been towed.
   (C)   Upon collection of said administrative charge, the Village's
Administrative Office shall cause the owner of record of the vehicle which has
been towed to execute a copy of a tow release form. The Village's
Administrative Office shall verify the accuracy of the signature and
signatory's ownership of said vehicle. Upon doing so, the Village's
Administrative Office shall stamp the tow release with a distinctive marking
indicating that it has been approved. The Village's Administrative Office shall
maintain a copy of each tow release it issues for a period of ten (10) years
from the date said tow release was issued.
   (D)   The towing service operator or relocator which has towed a vehicle
pursuant to this chapter shall verify that all signatures and stamps on the tow
release are original before releasing an impounded vehicle. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-
10-2009)
10-14B-14: REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING:
   (A)   By the first day of each month, any towing service operator or
relocator operating within the Village shall file a report containing the
following information:
      1.   Name of towing service operator or relocator;
      2.   Address of operation;
      3.   List of vehicle identification number and license plate of each
vehicle towed by the towing service operator or relocator during the previous
two (2) months pursuant to Village authorization;
      4.   The date of each such tow;
      5.   Such other information as may be required by the Village's Police
Chief.
   (B)   On a monthly basis, the Village's Administrative Office shall verify
that the information provided in the monthly reports submitted by towing
service operators or relocators pursuant to this chapter is consistent with tow
releases issued by the Village's Administrative Office.
   (C)   The Village's Police Department may perform random audits of any
towing service operator or relocator operating within the Village to verify
that vehicles authorized to be towed to the business by the Police Department
match the report given by the business and the business's storage yard
inventory. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 14C
VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
10-14C-1: Definitions
10-14C-2: Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impoundment
10-14C-3: Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
10-14C-4: Exception To Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
10-14C-5: Posting A Bond
10-14C-6: Preliminary Hearing
10-14C-7: Final Hearing
10-14C-8: Unclaimed Vehicles
10-14C-9: Liability For Penalty And Costs
10-14C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT AND AGGRAVATED BATTERY: A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-2 and 5/12-3.05, respectively.
ARMED ROBBERY: A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18-2.
BURGLARY AND RESIDENTIAL BURGLARY: A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/19-1 and 5/19-3, respectively.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedules
contained in article II of the Illinois controlled substances act 1 , as
amended from time to time, and cannabis as defined in section 3 of the cannabis
control act 2 , as amended from time to time.
CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY: A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-1.
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Any violation as defined in 11-501 of the Illinois
vehicle code 3 , as amended.
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED: Any violation as defined in 6-303 of the Illinois vehicle
code 4 , as amended.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any equipment, product and/or materials as defined in
section 2 of the drug paraphernalia control act 5 .
HEARING OFFICER: A licensed attorney who is not an officer.
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE: A violation of 6-
101 and/or 6-303 of the Illinois vehicle code 6 , as amended from time to time,
where the driver's license or driving privileges have been suspended, revoked,
canceled, never obtained or previously had been obtained and have been expired
for not less than six (6) months.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle.
RETAIL THEFT: A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-25.
UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS: A violation of 24-1 of the criminal code of 1961 7 ,
as amended. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550/3.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
4 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
5 1. 720 ILCS 600/2.
6 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 5/6-303.
7 3. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
10-14C-2: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this chapter
where such motor vehicle is used in the commission of any of the following:
   (A)   The possession or delivery of a controlled substance or drug
paraphernalia;
   (B)   Driving while under the influence;
   (C)   Driving while license, permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle
is suspended or revoked except a person whose driver's license, permit or
privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended only for a violation of the
emissions inspection law, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13 et seq.;
   (D)   Operation of a motor vehicle without a valid driver's license;
   (E)   The unlawful use of weapons;
   (F)   Retail theft, when the value of the merchandise exceeds one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00); and
   (G)   Aggravated assault, aggravated battery, armed robbery, burglary,
residential burglary and criminal damage to property. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, and none of the
circumstances delineated in section
10-14C-4 of this chapter are present, the police officer shall cause the motor
vehicle to be towed to a facility controlled by the village or its agents. When
the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying
himself or herself as the owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is
such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to
request a preliminary hearing as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-
2012)
10-14C-4: EXCEPTION TO VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Where a motor vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
chapter, a police officer shall cause the motor vehicle to be seized and
impounded, unless:
   (A)   The owner or operator of the motor vehicle furnishes proof of valid,
current motor vehicle insurance and the owner of the motor vehicle, who was not
operating the motor vehicle at the time of the traffic stop nor involved in the
commission of any of the crimes specified in section
10-14C-2 of this chapter, appears on the scene of the traffic stop within ten
(10) minutes, furnishes a current, valid driver's license and is willing to and
capable of safely and lawfully removing the motor vehicle.
   (B)   The owner/operator of the motor vehicle furnishes proof of valid,
current insurance, the operator has a passenger with a current, valid driver's
license in the motor vehicle, and the owner/operator of the vehicle executes an
indemnification agreement, holding the village harmless for releasing the motor
vehicle into the custody of said passenger, who is willing to and capable of
safely and lawfully removing the motor vehicle.
In such cases, the police officer is vested with discretion to determine if,
under the totality of the circumstances, the motor vehicle is capable of being
operated in a safe manner by either a properly licensed owner of the motor
vehicle or a properly licensed passenger where the owner indemnifies the
village for any damages resulting from the release of the motor vehicle to a
properly licensed passenger within said motor vehicle. If the police officer so
concludes, then the motor vehicle shall not be impounded, but rather be
released into the custody of the owner or passenger in accordance with the
regulations and procedures specified herein. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-5: POSTING A BOND:
If a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted with the
village, the impounded vehicle shall be released to the owner of record, upon
the payment by the owner of record of the towing and storage costs. If a
penalty is imposed for a violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited
to the village provided, in the event that a violation of this chapter is not
proven, the bond shall be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond
money posted pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the village until the
hearing officer issues a decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until a
reviewing court issues a final decision. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-6: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter
requests a preliminary hearing within twelve (12) hours after the seizure of
the motor vehicle, the watch commander or any supervising officer must conduct
a preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours after the request for a
preliminary hearing is received by the village; provided that if the date for
the hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the preliminary
hearing will be held on the next business day following the Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday. For purposes of this section, the following shall apply:
   (A)   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
   (B)   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay testimony will be allowed and shall be admissible.
   (C)   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the watch commander or
supervising officer determines that there is probable cause to believe that the
vehicle was used as provided in section
10-14C-2 of this chapter and that no driver fulfilling all of the criteria set
forth in section
10-14C-4 of this chapter was available to remove the motor vehicle from the
scene of the traffic stop, the watch commander or supervising officer shall
order the continued impoundment of the vehicle, unless the owner of the vehicle
posts a cash bond with the village in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus the towing and storage costs.
   (D)   If the watch commander or supervising officer determines that there is
not probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as provided in section
10-14C-2 of this chapter, or that an alternative driver fulfilling all of the
criteria set forth in section
10-14C-4 of this chapter was available to safely remove the motor vehicle from
the scene of the traffic stop, then the motor vehicle shall be returned to the
owner of record of the vehicle without any penalty or other costs. (Ord. 2012-
13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-7: FINAL HEARING:
   (A)   Notice Of Hearing: Within forty five (45) days after a motor vehicle
is seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, the village shall notify the
owner of record of the vehicle of the date, time and location of a final
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of record, as shown on the records of the Illinois
secretary of state. Notice by certified mail need not be given when the owner
of the vehicle has been personally served with notice in written form of the
time, date and location of the hearing.
   (B)   Requesting A Hearing: A person whose vehicle is seized pursuant to
this chapter may apply for a hearing to assert that he or she or the person
driving the vehicle was not in violation of this chapter at the time the
vehicle was seized. The application for a hearing shall be made no later than
seven (7) days after notice has been given either personally or by certified
mail, whichever is applicable in the given circumstance. The application to
request a hearing shall be provided by the village at the time notice is given.
The bond shall be forfeited in the event a hearing is not requested as provided
for in this section. After an application for hearing is received by the
village, a subsequent notice shall be sent to the person that requested the
hearing notifying that person of the date, time and location of the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing: For purposes of this section, the following shall apply at an
owner's final hearing:
      1.   Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing shall
be held within sixty (60) days after the motor vehicle was seized.
      2.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing.
      3.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as
provided in section
10-14C-2 of this chapter and that no driver fulfilling all of the criteria set
forth in section
10-14C-4 of this chapter was available to remove the motor vehicle from the
scene of the traffic stop, the hearing officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle until the owner of the vehicle pays to the village a
penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the towing and
storage costs. The penalty and costs shall be a debt to the village.
      4.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the village, which order
shall require the payment to the village of an administrative penalty of five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      5.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
provided in section
10-14C-2 of this chapter, or that such vehicle was so used but that a driver
fulfilling all of the criteria set forth in section
10-14C-4 of this chapter would have been available to safely remove the motor
vehicle from the scene of the traffic stop, then the motor vehicle shall be
returned to the owner of record of the vehicle without any penalty or other
costs, or, if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash bond shall be
returned. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-8: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle that is not claimed within thirty (30) days after
the expiration of time in which the owner of record may seek judicial review of
the action of the village under this chapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered in favor of the village by a court of proper jurisdiction,
or the time at which a final administrative decision is rendered against an
owner of record who is in default, may be disposed of as an abandoned or
unclaimed vehicle, as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   If the penalty and towing and storage costs are not paid within eighty
(80) days after a penalty is imposed pursuant to this chapter, the vehicle
shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be disposed of in the manner provided
by law for the disposition of abandoned or unclaimed vehicles, unless a
petition for judicial review is filed with a court of proper jurisdiction.
Where a petition for judicial review of the hearing officer's determination is
filed and pending in a court of proper jurisdiction, the vehicle shall not be
deemed to be abandoned and shall not be sold. If the petition for judicial
review is resolved in favor of the village, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and may be disposed of by the village if the penalty and towing and
storage costs are not paid within thirty (30) days after the date of the
court's order. (Ord. 2012-13, 10-9-2012)
10-14C-9: LIABILITY FOR PENALTY AND COSTS:
   (A)   The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded
shall be liable to the village for a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), in addition to any fees
for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle. (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)
   (B)   Fees for towing and storage are established by the towing company and
not by the village, except where the motor vehicle is stored on village
property, in which case the storage cost shall be established by the village
administrator or chief of police.
   (C)   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until the earlier of the following events occurs:
      1.   The penalty is paid to the village, and all towing and storage costs
are paid to the towing company.
      2.   A bond in amount equal to the liability of the owner as provided in
this section is posted with the village and all applicable towing and storage
costs are paid to the towing company.
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned or
unclaimed vehicles.
      4.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder or any other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of
a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the penalty and all towing
and storage costs applicable under this chapter have been paid in full. (Ord.
2012-13, 10-9-2012)
CHAPTER 15
ONE-WAY STREETS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Ordinance Enacted
10-15-2: One-Way Streets; Southerly Direction (Rep. Ord. 77-23, 10-11-77)
10-15-3: One-Way Streets; Westerly Direction (Rep. Ord. 74-11, 1974)
10-15-4: One-Way Streets; Northerly Direction (Rep. Ord. 74-11, 1974)
10-15-5: Signs
10-15-6: One-Way Alley
10-15-7: Left Turn Prohibited
10-15-1: ORDINANCE ENACTED:
In accordance with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle Law and the powers of
local authorities designated therein, this Ordinance is enacted to designate
particular streets as one-way roadways and requiring that all vehicles thereon
be moved in one specific direction. (Ord. 65-15, 12-14-65)
10-15-2: ONE-WAY STREETS; SOUTHERLY DIRECTION:
(Rep. Ord. 77-23, 10-11-77)
10-15-3: ONE-WAY STREETS; WESTERLY DIRECTION:
(Rep. Ord. 74-11, 1974)
10-15-4: ONE-WAY STREETS; NORTHERLY DIRECTION:
(Rep. Ord. 74-11, 1974)
10-15-5: SIGNS:
Signs giving notice of such traffic regulations shall be posted upon the
entrances to said streets, avenues and roadways and at any other part thereof
as may be appropriate. (Ord. 65-15, 12-14-65)
10-15-6: ONE-WAY ALLEY:
The alleys directly north of, and parallel to, 147th Street, between Albany
Avenue and Sacramento Avenue, is designated a one- way traffic roadway and
alleys requiring all vehicles thereon to be moved in an easterly direction.
The alley directly north of, and parallel to, 147th Street, contiguous to the
building and property of the U.S. Postal Service located at 2716 West 147th
Street, for its entire distance between Harrison and Cleveland Avenues, is
hereby designated a one-way roadway and alley requiring all vehicles thereon to
be operated in an easterly direction. (Ord. 87-24, 11-10-87)
10-15-7: LEFT TURN PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to turn left, southbound, upon Whipple
Avenue, from the northwest corner of the business premises commonly known as
3020 West 147th Street or from the Whipple Avenue entrance driveway upon said
premises south of the alley directly north of, and parallel to, 147th Street,
Posen. (Ord. 77-7, 3-22-77)
CHAPTER 16
PARADES AND MOTORCADES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Definitions
10-16-2: Permits
10-16-3: Parade or Motorcade for Commercial Purpose Prohibited 10-16-4:
Interference With Parade or Motorcade
10-16-5: Application for Permit
10-16-6: Issuance or Denial of Permit
10-16-7: Contents of Permit
10-16-8: Appeal Procedure
10-16-9: Officials to be Notified
10-16-10: Revocation of Permit
10-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARADE: "Parade " means any march or procession consisting of people, animals
or vehicles, or combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any
public street, sidewalk or alley, which does not comply with normal and usual
traffic regulations or controls.
MOTORCADE: "Motorcade" means an organized procession containing ten (10) or
more vehicles, except funeral processions, upon any public street, sidewalk or
alley.
10-16-2: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade or motorcade in or upon
any public street, sidewalk or alley in the Village or knowingly participate in
any such parade or motorcade unless and until a permit to conduct such parade
or motorcade has been obtained from the Chief of Police, or, as hereinafter
provided, from the Board of Trustees and Mayor.
10-16-3: PARADE OR MOTORCADE FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSE PROHIBITED:
No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade or motorcade
which the Chief of Police finds is proposed to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, goods, wares, merchandise, or event, and is designed
to be held purely for private profit.
10-16-4: INTERFERENCE WITH PARADE OR MOTORCADE:
No person shall knowingly join or participate in any parade or motorcade
conducted under permit from the Chief of Police in violation of any of the
terms of said permit, nor knowingly join or participate in any permitted parade
or motorcade without the consent and over the objection of the permittee, nor
in any manner interfere with its progress or orderly conduct.
10-16-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person who wants to conduct a parade or motorcade shall apply to the Chief
of Police for a permit at least twenty (20) days in advance of the date of the
proposed parade or motorcade. The Chief of Police may, in his discretion,
consider any application for a permit to conduct a parade or motorcade, which
is filed less than twenty (20) days prior to the date such parade or motorcade
is to be conducted. The application for such permit shall be made in writing on
a form approved by the Chief of Police. In order that adequate arrangements may
be made for the proper policing of the parade or motorcade, the application
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, the parade or
motorcade chairman and the addresses and telephone numbers of each.
   (B)   The purpose of the parade or motorcade, the date when it is proposed
to be conducted, the location of the assembly area, the location of the
disbanding area, route to be traveled and the approximate time when the parade
or motorcade will assemble, start and terminate.
   (C)   A description of the individual floats, marching units, vehicles,
bands, including a description of any sound amplification equipment to be used.
   (D)   Such other information as the Chief of Police may deem reasonably
necessary.
10-16-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Standards for Issuance: The Chief of Police shall issue a parade or
motorcade permit conditioned upon the applicant's written agreement to comply
with the terms of such permit unless the Chief of Police finds that:
      1.   The time, route and size of the parade or motorcade will disrupt to
an unreasonable extent, the movement of other traffic.
      2.   The parade or motorcade is of a size or nature that requires the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the Village to properly
police the line of movement, and the areas contiguous thereto, that allowing
the parade or motorcade would deny reasonable police protection to the Village.
      3.   Such parade or motorcade will interfere with another parade or
motorcade for which a permit has been issued.
   (B)   Standards for Denial: The Chief of Police shall deny an application
for a parade or motorcade permit and notify the applicant of such denial where:
      1.   The Chief of Police makes any finding contrary to the findings
required to be made for the issuance of a permit.
      2.   The information contained in the application is found to be false or
nonexistent in any material detail.
      3.   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
10-16-7: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
In each permit the Chief of Police shall specify:
   (A)   The assembly area and time therefor;
   (B)   The starting time;
   (C)   The minimum and maximum speeds;
   (D)   The route of the parade or motorcade;
   (E)   What portions of streets to be traveled may be occupied by such parade
or motorcade;
   (F)   The maximum number of platoons or units and the maximum and minimum
intervals of space to be maintained between the units of such parade or
motorcade;
   (G)   The maximum length of such parade or motorcade in miles or fractions
thereof;
   (H)   The disbanding area, and disbanding time;
   (I)   The number of persons required to monitor the parade or motorcade;
   (J)   The number and type of vehicles, if any;
   (K)   The material and maximum size of any sign, banner, placard or carrying
device therefor;
   (L)   That the materials used in the construction of floats used in any
parade shall be of fire-retardant materials and shall be subject to such
requirements concerning fire safety as may be determined by the Fire Chief.
   (M)   That permittee advise all participants in the parade or motorcade
either orally or by written notice, of the terms and conditions of the permit,
prior to the commencement of such parade or motorcade;
   (N)   That the amplification of sound permitted to be emitted from sound
trucks, or bull horns, be fixed and not variable;
   (O)   That the parade or motorcade continue to move at a fixed rate of speed
and that any wilful delay or wilful stopping of said parade or motorcade,
except when reasonably required for the safe and orderly conduct of the parade
or motorcade, shall constitute a violation of the permit; and,
   (P)   Such other requirements as are found by the Chief of Police to be
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property.
All conditions of the permit shall be complied with so far as reasonably
practicable.
10-16-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Upon a denial by the Chief of Police of an application made pursuant to Section
10-16-5 of this Chapter, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the
Chief of Police within five (5) days thereafter to the Board of Trustees and
Mayor by filing a written notice of appeal for hearing by the Board of Trustees
and Mayor at their next regular meeting. Upon such appeal, the Board of
Trustees and Mayor may reverse, affirm, or modify in any regard the
determination of the Chief of Police.
In the event an application is not filed within the required time, as specified
in Section
10-16-5, the applicant may request a waiver of such requirement by the Board of
Trustees and Mayor at their next regular meeting, or at a special meeting which
may be called prior thereto by said Board of Trustees and Mayor to consider
such matter, and the Board of Trustees and Mayor, if they find unusual
circumstances and in the exercise of its sound discretion, may waive such
requirement.
10-16-9: OFFICIALS TO BE NOTIFIED:
Immediately upon the granting of a permit for a parade or motorcade, the Chief
of Police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The Mayor.
   (B)   The Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Public Works Director.
10-16-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit for a parade or motorcade issued pursuant to this Chapter may be
summarily revoked by the Chief of Police at any time when, by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the Chief of Police
determines that the safety of the public or property requires such revocation.
Notice of such action revoking a permit shall be delivered in writing to the
permittee by personal service or by certified mail. (Ord. 76-30, 12-14-76)
CHAPTER 17
SNOW ROUTES AND PARKING PROHIBITIONS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Snow Routes
10-17-2: Impounding Of Vehicles
10-17-3: Penalty
10-17-1: SNOW ROUTES:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on or upon any of the following
designated snow route streets in the Village at any time within twelve (12)
hours after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has occurred:
   143rd Street
   144th Street
   145th Street
   146th Street north side of street
   147th Street
   148th Street
   149th Street
   149th Street to 150th Street (east) Sacramento
   McKinley, Harrison and California west side of street until the street has
been plowed to the curbs. (Ord. 98-01, 1-27-1998)
10-17-2: IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES:
Every vehicle parked in violation of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance which may be abated by any police officer by removing and conveying
such vehicle to the vehicle pound or pounds designated by the chairman of the
Police and Fire Department Committee. Before the owner or person entitled to
possession of any legally impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove the
same, he shall furnish evidence of ownership or right to possession and shall
pay for the cost of towing or removal to the vehicle pound and the cost of
storage for each day or fraction thereof in said pound.
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any provisions of
this Chapter prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such
vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and
subject to penalty therefor. (Ord. 98-01, 1-27-1998)
10-17-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 98-01, 1-27-1998)
CHAPTER 18
OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAY AT RAILROAD CROSSING PROHIBITED
SECTION:
10-18-1: Obstruction Prohibited
10-18-2: Penalty
10-18-1: OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for a railroad corporation to permit any train, railroad car or
engine to obstruct emergency vehicles and/or public travel at a railroad-
highway crossing for a period in excess of ten (10) minutes, except where such
train, railroad car or engine is continually moving or cannot be moved by
reason of circumstances over which the railroad corporation has no control.
(Ord. 2004-23, 7-27-2004)
10-18-2: PENALTY:
Any railroad corporation, violating section
10-18-1 of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) if the duration of the
obstruction is in excess of ten (10) minutes but no longer than fifteen (15)
minutes. If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of fifteen (15)
minutes, the following fines shall be imposed:
 
Over 15 minutes, but no longer than 20 minutes $500.00
Over 20 minutes, but no longer than 25 minutes 700.00
Over 25 minutes, but no longer than 30 minutes 900.00
Over 30 minutes, but no longer than 35 minutes 1,000.00
For each additional 5 minutes over 35 minutes  500.00
 
(Ord. 2004-23, 7-27-2004)
CHAPTER 19
VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Vehicle Weight Restriction
10-19-2: Permission and Bond Requirements
10-19-3: Posting of Restrictions
10-19-4: Fines for Violations
10-19-1: VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No person shall drive a vehicle over any street in the Village, other than a
State route, where the gross weight of such vehicle is in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds. On State routes, the weight limits established by
State law shall govern.
10-19-2: PERMISSION AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   An application may be made in certain cases to the Village Clerk for
permission to drive a vehicle, whose gross weight exceeds ten thousand (10,000)
pounds, over designated streets in the Village.
   (B)   The permission provided for in subsection (A) hereof shall be granted
only if the applicant deposits with the Village Clerk a bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), payable to the Village, to pay for any damage
caused by such vehicle while driving over any Village street, bridge or
culvert.
10-19-3: POSTING OF RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to any street in the Village unless a notice of
the weight limit established in this Chapter is posted thereon, and in no event
shall any of the weight limitations of this Chapter apply to any street in the
Village where signs allowing local delivery are posted.
10-19-4: FINES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person, violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined as follows:
Except local delivery and permit moves, fines are:
   90¢ per pound to 2,000 lbs.
   90¢ per pound to 3,000 lbs.
   90¢ per pound to 4,000 lbs.
   90¢ per pound to 5,000 lbs.
   90¢ per pound in excess of 5,000 lbs.
(Ord. 89-03, 2-28-89; amd. Ord. 2022-17, 7-12-2022)
CHAPTER 20
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-20-1: Definitions
10-20-2: Operation Of Nonhighway Vehicles
10-20-3: Authorization Of Use By The Village Of Posen Police And Fire
Departments
10-20-4: Penalty
10-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                                   A vehicle specifically designed and intended
                                   for the purposes of transporting one (1) or
                                   more persons and their golf clubs or
GOLF CART:                         maintenance while engaged in the playing of
                                   golf, supervising the play of golf, or
                                   maintaining the condition of the grounds on
                                   a public or private golf course.
                                   A self-propelled, electric powered, four (4)
                                   wheeled motor vehicle (or a self-propelled,
                                   gasoline powered, 4 wheeled motor vehicle
                                   with an engine displacement under one
                                   thousand two hundred (1,200) cubic
NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE:              centimeters) that is capable of attaining in
                                   one (1) mile a speed of more than twenty
                                   (20) miles per hour, but not more than
                                   twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which
                                   conforms to Federal regulations under title
                                   49 CFR part 571.500.
                                   The following motor vehicles not
                                   specifically designed to be used on a public
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE:                highway: a golf cart; a neighborhood
                                   vehicle; and a recreational off highway
                                   vehicle.
                                   Any motorized off highway device designed to
                                   travel primarily off highway, sixty four
                                   inches (64") or less in width, having a
                                   manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES: (2,000) pounds or less, traveling on four
                                   (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with
                                   a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel,
                                   except equipment such as lawnmowers. (Ord.
                                   2023-18, 5-23-2023)
 
10-20-2: OPERATION OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it shall be lawful for a person
to drive or operate a nonhighway vehicle upon any roadway in the Village of
Posen subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   No nonhighway vehicle shall be driven or operated upon any roadway in
the Village of Posen with a speed limit greater than thirty (30) miles per
hour. Provided however, a nonhighway vehicle may cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway to be crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   (B)   No person shall drive or operate a nonhighway vehicle upon any roadway
in the Village of Posen without a valid driver's license issued in his or her
name.
   (C)   No person operating a nonhighway vehicle shall make a direct crossing
upon or across any highway under the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois,
toll road, interstate highway, or controlled access highway unless at an
intersection controlled by a traffic light or a four-way stop sign and the
speed limit of the highway to be crossed is forty (40) miles per hour or less
at the place of crossing.
   (D)   No nonhighway vehicle shall be driven or operated on any roadway not
exclusively under the jurisdiction of the Village of Posen unless the Village
and the unit of local government with the concurrent jurisdiction authorizes
the same.
   (E)   No all-terrain vehicles, as defined by Section 1-101.8 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, or off highway motorcycles as defined by Section 1-153.1 of the
Illinois Code, shall be driven or operated on any roadway in the Village of
Posen.
   (F)   No nonhighway vehicle may be operated on any roadway in the Village of
Posen, unless at a minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus,
tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectors in the front and rear, a slow moving
emblem 1 on the rear of the nonhighway vehicle, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a
taillight that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100')
to the rear, brake lights and turn signals. All nonhighway vehicles shall have
their headlights and taillights illuminated when driven or operated upon a
roadway in the Village of Posen as required by Section 12-201 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   (G)   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a street or roadway
shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under article VI,
Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a nonhighway
vehicle upon any roadway within the Village of Posen while transporting or
carrying more occupants than the nonhighway vehicle is designed to transport or
carry as determined by the number of permanent individual seats provided in the
nonhighway vehicle.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for a person to drive or operate a nonhighway
vehicle (excluding low speed vehicles that are required by the Secretary of
State to register with the State of Illinois) upon any roadway in the Village
of Posen that is not registered with the Posen Police Department, or that does
not have displayed conspicuously on the rear of said nonhighway vehicle, a
corresponding current registration number placard/sticker.
      1.   Commencing June 1, 2023, and annually thereafter, all owners of
nonhighway vehicles shall apply to register their nonhighway vehicle with the
Posen Police Department by fully and truthfully completing a nonhighway vehicle
registration application. In order to be registered, the nonhighway vehicle
shall be subject to inspection by the Posen Police Department and must comply
with the condition requirements of this Chapter, including providing proof of
compliance with the mandatory insurance requirements.
      2.   Nonhighway vehicle registration, and the corresponding placard/
sticker, shall be valid for a period of June 1 of the current calendar year
through May 31 of the following calendar year.
      3.   Commencing June 1, 2023, a nonrefundable registration fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid by the owner at the time of application for
registration.
      4.   Registration shall be subject to the revocation in the event the
Posen Police Department determines the applicable insurance policy for the
nonhighway vehicle has been revoked, has lapsed or is otherwise invalid.
      5.   All owners of the nonhighway vehicles registered with the Posen
Police Department will be issued a corresponding registration number placard/
sticker, which shall be affixed and remain conspicuously visible on the rear of
the nonhighway vehicle. (Ord. 2023-18, 5-23-2023)
10-20-3: AUTHORIZATION OF USE BY THE VILLAGE OF POSEN POLICE AND FIRE
DEPARTMENTS:
Any employee, officer, volunteer or unpaid person working under the direction,
supervision and control of and performing work or services for the Village of
Posen or the Posen Fire Protection District may operate a nonhighway vehicle on
the Village streets or recreational trails subject to compliance with the
following:
   (A)   The person must have a valid driver's license in his or her name.
   (B)   The nonhighway vehicle must be owned, leased or otherwise controlled
by the Village of Posen, the Posen Fire Protection District, or the Will County
Forest Preserve District.
   (C)   Nonhighway vehicles may be operated only on the streets where the
posted or authorized speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less,
recreational trails or public ways. In addition, a nonhighway vehicle may also
operate on sidewalks. This does not prohibit a nonhighway vehicle from crossing
a street at an intersection where the street has a posted speed limit of more
than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   (D)   Nonhighway vehicles shall operate in conformance with all applicable
laws of the State of Illinois and ordinances of the Village of Posen not
inconsistent with this Chapter.
   (E)   Nonhighway vehicles shall be operated in conformance with any rules
and regulations promulgated by the Chief of Police of the Village of Posen
regarding the operation of nonhighway vehicles.
   (F)   The Chief of Police may promulgate and publish rules and regulations
for the operation of nonhighway vehicles not inconsistent with this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-18, 5-23-2023)
10-20-4: PENALTY:
Any person who is found in guilty for failure to comply with any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be held liable for a violation of Village Code
offense, and fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense thereafter.
(Ord. 2023-18, 5-23-2023)
TITLE XI
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Definitions
11-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Title they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
ADULT-USE      Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis
CANNABIS CRAFT and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at an
GROWER:        adult-use dispensing organization or use at an adult-use processing organization,
               per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated
               thereunder.
ADULT-USE      A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CANNABIS       Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform
CULTIVATION    necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to
CENTER:        licensed adult-use cannabis business establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation
               and Tax Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
ADULT-USE      Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis
CANNABIS       from licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or
DISPENSING     dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or
ORGANIZATION:  related supplies to adult-use purchasers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
               Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE      An adult-use cannabis cultivation center, adult-use cannabis craft grower, adult-
CANNABIS       use cannabis processing organization, adult-use cannabis infuser organization, or
INDUSTRIAL     adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
ORGANIZATION:
ADULT-USE      A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CANNABIS       Illinois Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis
INFUSER        concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per
ORGANIZATION:  the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated
               thereunder.
ADULT-USE      An adult-use cannabis cultivation center, adult-use cannabis craft grower, adult-
CANNABIS       use cannabis processing organization, adult-use cannabis infuser organization,
ORGANIZATION:  adult-use cannabis dispensing organization or adult-use cannabis transporting
               organization.
ADULT-USE      A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CANNABIS       Illinois Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or
PROCESSING     compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis
ORGANIZATION   concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the
or PROCESSOR:  Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
               regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE      An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
CANNABIS       Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of an adult-use cannabis business
TRANSPORTATION establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
ORGANIZATION:  Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
               Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
               The word "alley" shall mean a narrow thoroughfare upon which abuts generally the
ALLEY:         rear of premises and is not used generally by both pedestrians and vehicles, or
               which is less than thirty feet (30') in width.
APARTMENT      The term "apartment house" shall mean a building which is used or intended to be
HOUSE:         used as a home or residence for more than two (2) families living in separate
               apartments.
APARTMENT      The term "apartment hotel" shall mean an apartment house in which are provided
HOTEL:         dining room accommodations for the joint use of apartment house tenants.
BOARDING       The term "boarding house" shall mean a building or premise where meals are
HOUSE:         regularly served, or is equipped to serve such meals, by prearrangement for
               definite periods for compensation, not open to transients.
               The term "billboard" shall mean any structure affixed to the surface of the land
BILLBOARD:     or attached to a building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used
               exclusively as a sign.
               The term "block" shall mean the property abutting on a street on one side of such
BLOCK:         street and lying between the two (2) nearest intersecting or intercepting streets
               or nearest intersecting or intercepting streets and railroad right of way.
               The word "building" shall mean a structure entirely separated from any other
               structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors or
               windows or similar openings and having a roof supported by walls or columns for
BUILDING:      the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels. Two (2) or
               more buildings designed and intended for use as two (2) family dwellings,
               apartment houses, apartment hotels, stores, or other like business occupancy may
               be considered as one building if constructed as a single unit.
               The term "building area" shall mean the maximum horizontal projected area of a
BUILDING AREA: building and its accessories, excluding open steps, terraces and cornices
               projecting not more than twenty inches (20").
BUILDING LINE  The term "building line setback" shall mean a line established herein generally
SETBACK:       parallel with the street line, between such line and the tree line the front line
               of a building shall not be built or located.
               The word "business" shall mean the engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or
BUSINESS:      exchange of goods, wares or merchandise; the maintenance or operation of offices
               or recreational or amusement enterprises operated for profit.
CANNABIS       Any adult-use cannabis dispensing organization or medical cannabis dispensing
DISPENSING     organization.
ORGANIZATION:
               Any facility operated by an adult-use cannabis cultivation center, adult-use
CANNABIS       cannabis craft grower, adult-use cannabis processing organization, adult-use
INDUSTRIAL     cannabis infuser organization, adult-use cannabis transporting organization,
ORGANIZATION:  medical cannabis cultivation center, medical cannabis craft grower, medical
               cannabis processing organization, medical cannabis infuser organization, or
               medical cannabis transporting organization.
CANNABIS       Any adult-use cannabis organization or medical cannabis organization.
ORGANIZATION:
               The term "depth of lot" shall mean a section of the Village for which uniform
DEPTH OF LOT:  regulations governing the height, area and use of buildings and premises within
               the section are established in reference to that particular section.
DWELLING;      The term "single-family dwelling" shall mean a detached building occupied by or
SINGLE-FAMILY: designed for occupancy by one family.
DWELLING; TWO- The term "two-family dwelling" shall mean occupied by or designed for occupancy
FAMILY:        by two (2) families living independently of each other.
               The word "family" shall mean one or more individuals related by blood, marriage
FAMILY:        or adoption or not to exceed five (5) persons not so related, living, sleeping,
               cooking, and eating on the premises as a single housekeeping unit.
FRONT YARD:    The term "front yard" shall mean an open unoccupied space between the front line
               of the building and the street line.
               The term "front line of building" shall mean the line of the main wall nearest to
FRONT LINE OF  and facing the street, including such wall of sun parlors, or porches, open or
BUILDING:      enclosed and excluding only open steps and terraces and walls or fences not more
               than three and one-half feet (3%') in height. (1965 Code)
               An accessory building designed for the occupancy of not more than two (2)
GARAGE;        passenger motor vehicles of the family residing on the same premises or in which
PRIVATE:       space is provided for not more than one automobile rented to a person not an
               occupant of the premises. (Ord. 78-15, 9-12-78)
GARAGE;        The term "public garage" shall mean a garage other than a private garage, used
PUBLIC:        for housing or care of more than three (3) automobiles or where such vehicles are
               equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
               The term "height of building" shall mean the vertical distance from the
HEIGHT OF      established grade to the average finished ceiling line of the topmost habitable
BUILDING:      story; provided, that penthouses, towers or steeples shall not be counted in
               measuring the height of a building.
               The term "home occupation" shall mean an occupation for gain or support conducted
HOME           entirely and only by members of the family within a residential building; and
OCCUPATION:    provided, that no article is sold or offered for sale except such as may be
               produced in the household by members of the family.
HOTEL:         The word "Hotel" shall mean a building in which board and lodging are provided
               and offered to the public for compensation, open to transients.
LOT:           The word "Lot" shall mean a zoning lot except as the context shall indicate a lot
               of record in which case a "Lot" is a lot of record.
               The term "Lot of Record" shall mean an area of land designated as a lot on a plat
LOT OF RECORD: of subdivision recorded or registered, pursuant to Statute, with the Recorder of
               Deeds of Cook County.
LOT, ZONING:   See Zoning Lot.
               The term "Corner Lot" shall mean a lot located at the intersection of two (2)
LOT, CORNER:   streets or a lot bounded on two (2) sides by a curving street any two (2) chords
               of which form an angle of one hundred twenty degrees (120) or less measured on
               the lot side.
LOT, INTERIOR: The term "Interior Lot" shall mean a lot other than a. corner lot or a through
               lot.
LOT, THROUGH:  The term "Through Lot" shall mean a lot having frontage on two (2) streets at
               opposite ends of the lot.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
MEDICAL        Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform
CANNABIS       necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to
CULTIVATION    licensed medical cannabis dispensing organizations, per the Compassionate Use of
CENTER:        Medical Cannabis Program Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
               regulations promulgated thereunder.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
MEDICAL        Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis
CANNABIS       from licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or
DISPENSING     dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or
ORGANIZATION:  related supplies to registered qualifying patients, per the Compassionate Use of
               Medical Cannabis Program Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
               regulations promulgated thereunder.
MEDICAL        A medical cannabis cultivation center, medical cannabis processing organization,
CANNABIS       medical cannabis infuser organization, or medical cannabis transporting
INDUSTRIAL     organization.
ORGANIZATION:
MEDICAL        A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CANNABIS       Illinois Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis
INFUSER        concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per
ORGANIZATION:  the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as amended, and
               regulations promulgated thereunder.
MEDICAL        A medical cannabis cultivation center, medical cannabis processing organization,
CANNABIS       medical cannabis infuser organization, medical cannabis dispensing organization,
ORGANIZATION:  or medical cannabis transporting organization.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
MEDICAL        Illinois Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or
CANNABIS       compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis
PROCESSING     concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the
ORGANIZATION:  Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as amended, and regulations
               promulgated thereunder.
MEDICAL        An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
CANNABIS       Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a medical cannabis business
TRANSPORTING   establishment, per the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as it
ORGANIZATION:  may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
NONCONFORMIN G The term "Nonconforming Use" shall mean a building, premises or use that does not
USE:           conform with the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
               The term "Parking Space" shall mean an area not less than nine feet by twenty
PARKING SPACE: feet (9' x 20') exclusive of access drives or aisles, connected with or
               accessible to a street or alley.
               "Performance Standards" shall be defined as follows:
               (A)   Decibel: A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound. Sound
               level meters are used to measure such intensities and are calibrated in decibels.
               (B)   Flash Point: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid under
               prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will burn momentarily
               using the closed cup method.
               (C)   Foot-Candle: A unit of illumination. It is equivalent to the illumination
               at all points which are one foot (1') distant from a uniform source of one (1)
               candlepower.
               (D)   Free Burning: A rate of combustion described by a material which burns
               actively and easily supports combustion.
               (E)   Intense Burning: A rate of combustion described by a material that burns
               with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly.
               (F)   Moderate Burning: A rate of combustion described by a material which
               supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
               (G)   Octave Band: A narrow range of sound frequencies which classify sounds
               according to pitch. In the octave band analyzer the audible sound spectrum is
               divided into eight octave bands.
               (H)   Octave Band Analyzer: An electrical device used with the sound level meter
               that sorts a complex noise or sound into the various octave bands.
               (I)   Particulate Matter: Finely divided liquid or solid material which is
               discharged and carried along in the air. This shall not include water droplets,
               commonly called steam.
PERFORMANCE    (J)   Resultant Displacement: The maximum amount of motion in any direction and
STANDARDS:     shall be determined by means of any three (3) component (simultaneous) measuring
               system approved by the Building Department.
               (K)   Ringelmann Number: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that most
               nearly matches the light obscuring capacity of smoke. The Ringelmann chart is
               described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular #6888, on which are
               illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating smoke density. Smoke
               below the density of Ringelmann Number 1 shall be considered no smoke or
               Ringelmann Number 0.
               (L)   Slow Burning or Incombustible: Materials which do not in themselves
               constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will not
               ignite, nor actively support combustion during an exposure for five (5) minutes
               to a temperature of twelve hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1200°F.).
               (M)   Smoke: A suspension of fine particles, excluding water droplets, in a
               gaseous plume, which obscure the transmission of light.
               (N)   Smoke Unit: The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann number
               is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
               calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
               during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time in
               minutes during which it is observed. The various products are then added together
               to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire observation
               period.
               (O) Three Component Measuring System: Instrumentation which can measure earth
               borne vibrations in three (3) directions, that is, vibration occurring in a
               horizontal as well as a vertical plane.
               (P)   Vibration: Oscillatory motion transmitted through the ground.
               The term "Professional Office" shall mean when conducted in a residential
               district, be incidental to the residential occupation, shall be conducted
PROFESSIONAL   entirely within a residential building and shall include only the offices of
OFFICE:        doctors, or practitioners, beauticians, ministers, lawyers, authors, artists,
               musicians and other professional occupations occasionally conducted within
               residences.
               An open space between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot,
REAR YARD:     for the full width of the lot and unoccupied except for authorized accessory
               buildings.
               Open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the side of the
SIDE YARD:     building and the side line of the lot and extending from the street line to the
               rear line of the building, except on a corner lot, the side yard on the street
               side shall extend from the front street line to the rear lot line.
               An advertisement, announcement, mark of identification or symbol attached to,
SIGN:          painted or illuminated, directly or indirectly upon any land or building, except
               the flag, emblem or insignia of a nation, school or religious group.
               A thoroughfare over thirty feet (30') in width between property lines, used for
               public foot and vehicle traffic, other than an alley. A street may consist of two
STREET:        (2) or more lanes of pavement for through vehicular traffic, a parking lane on
               one or both sides of such traffic lanes, parkways or grass plots outside parking
               or traffic lanes, and public sidewalks for foot traffic.
STREET LINE:   The dividing line between a street and the lot. The front street line of a corner
               lot is the shortest street line.
STREET WALL:   The wall of a building nearest to and facing on a street.
               A triangular area, twenty five feet (25') along a front lot line and forty feet
               (40') along the side lot line of a corner lot, or a triangular area, twenty five
               feet (25') along the rear lot line and forty feet (40') along a side street line
VISION         of a lot which is adjoined on its rear line by the side line of a lot fronting on
CLEARANCE:     a side street. Such area shall be unobstructed by any wall, fence, hedge or
               shrubbery over three and one-half feet (31/2') in height, except an open type
               fence that does not reduce visibility in excess of twenty percent (20%) may
               exceed three and one-half feet (31/2') but not over six feet (6') in height.
               A single tract of land located within a single block which, at the time of filing
               for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be
ZONING LOT:    used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control. A
               zoning lot may or may not coincide with a lot of record. (Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-
               2020)
 
CHAPTER 2
USE DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
11-2-1: Districts Designated; Map
11-2-2: Compliance with District Regulations
11-2-1: Districts Designated; Map:
For the purpose of classifying, regulating and restricting the location of
trades and industries and the location of buildings hereafter erected or
altered and for the purpose of regulating and determining the area of yards,
and open spaces for buildings hereafter erected or altered, the Village is
hereby divided into seven (7) classes or districts as follows:
"A" Districts, Single-Family Dwellings
"B" Districts, Single-Family Dwellings
"C" Districts, Two-Family Dwellings
"D" Districts, Apartments
"E" Districts, Business
"F" Districts, Business
"G" Districts, Industrial
as shown on the Zoning Map which is hereby made a part of this Title. The
Zoning Map is amended in the following particulars:
      1.   The zoning of the frontage on the west side of Blaine Avenue between
149th Street and 150th Street be changed from Class D Apartments to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      2.   The zoning of the frontage on Kedzie Avenue between 145th Street and
the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class F
Business.
      3.   The zoning of the frontage on Troy Street between the alley north of
147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      4.   The zoning of the frontage on Troy Street between 146th Street and
145th Street be changed from Class D Apartments to Class B Single-Family
Dwelling.
      5.   The zoning of the frontage on Troy Street between 145th Street and
the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      6.   The zoning of the frontage on Albany Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      7.   The zoning of the frontage on Albany Avenue between 146th Street and
145th Street be changed from Class D Apartments to Class B Single-Family
Dwelling.
      8.   The zoning of the frontage on Albany Avenue between 145th Street and
the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      9.   The zoning of the frontage on Whipple Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      10.   The zoning of the frontage on Whipple Avenue between 146th Street
and 145th Street be changed from Class D Apartments to Class B Single-Family
Dwelling.
      11.   The zoning of the frontage on Whipple Avenue between 145th Street
and the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      12.   The zoning of the frontage on Sacramento Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      13.   The zoning of the frontage on Sacramento Avenue between 146th
Street and 145th Street be changed from Class D Apartments to Class B Single-
Family Dwelling.
      14.   The zoning of the frontage on Sacramento Avenue between 145th
Street and the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      15.   The zoning of the frontage on Richmond Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      16.   The zoning of the frontage on Richmond Avenue between 145th Street
and the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      17.   The zoning of the frontage on Fransisco Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      18.   The zoning of the frontage on the east side of Fransisco Avenue
between 145th Street and 146th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      19.   The zoning of the frontage on Francisco Avenue between 145th Street
and the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      20.   The zoning of the frontage on Mozart Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 145th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      21.   The zoning of the frontage on Mozart Avenue between 145th Street
and the north Village boundary be changed from Class G Industrial to Class B
Single-Family Dwelling.
      22.   The zoning of the frontage on California Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 145th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      23.   The zoning of the frontage on Harrison Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      24.   The zoning of the frontage on Cleveland Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      25.   The zoning of the frontage on Blaine Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      26.   The zoning of the frontage on Palmer Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      27.   The zoning of the frontage on McKinley Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      28.   The zoning of the frontage on Campbell Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      29.   The zoning of the frontage on Sherman Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      30.   The zoning of the frontage on Division Avenue between the alley
north of 147th Street and 143rd Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      31.   The zoning of the frontage on Short Avenue between the alley north
of 147th Street and 145th Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling to
Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      32.   The zoning of the frontage on Spaulding Avenue between Division
Street and Dixie Highway be changed from Class C Two- Family Dwelling to Class
B Single-Family Dwelling.
      33.   The zoning of the frontage on 144th Street between Division Street
and the alley west of Dixie Highway be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling
to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
      34.   The zoning of the frontage on 144th Place between the alley west of
Dixie Highway and Division Street be changed from Class C Two-Family Dwelling
to Class B Single Family-Dwelling.
      35.   The zoning of the frontage on 145th Street between the alley west
of Dixie Highway and Division Street be changed from Class C Two-Family
Dwelling to Class B Single-Family Dwelling.
The districts designated on the Map are hereby established. The district
designations on the Map and all notations, references and other things shown
thereon are hereby declared a part of this Title. (Ord. 92-01, 1-14-92)
11-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected, altered, enlarged, moved or used and no premises
shall be used for any purpose not in conformity with all the regulations herein
prescribed for the district in which such building or premises is located.
The "Official Zoning Map for the Village of Posen" shall be in accordance with
the divisions, uses, and classifications designated on the Map made a part of
this Chapter by reference, as previously prepared by the Zoning Commission.
Said Map shall be hereafter designated as the "Official Zoning Map for the
Village of Posen" and the Village Clerk shall have copies of said Map prepared
and shall publish a copy of said "Official Zoning Map" as provided by law prior
to March 31, 1968.
Persons desiring copies of the Zoning Ordinance in pamphlet form shall pay ten
dollars ($10.00) to defray the cost of publishing same in said form; said
payment shall be made to the Village. (Ord. 86-32, 11-11-86)
CHAPTER 3
"A" AND "B" DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: "A" and "B" District Regulations
11-3-1: "A" AND "B" DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the erection, alteration and use of
buildings and premises within the "A" and "B" Residential Districts:
   (A)   Use: No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be
erected or altered, which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for
other than the following specified uses:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Churches serving local congregations only.
      3.   Schools and community houses.
      4.   Libraries and public museums.
      5.   Parks and park recreational buildings.
      6.   Police and fire stations.
      7.   Temporary buildings used for construction purposes for a period of
not exceeding one year.
   (B)   Height: No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories in height.
   (C)   Front Yard: No building shall be erected or moved so that the street
wall thereof shall be less than twenty five feet (25') from the street line,
and no fence, wall, hedge or other obstruction more than three and one-half
feet (31/2') in height shall be used to enclose such front yard.
   (D)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, that such rear yard
shall be not less than thirty feet (30').
   (E)   Side Yard: On each side of the building along an interior lot line
there shall be a side yard having a width of ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot but not less than five feet (5'), except that a private garage at the
rear of a dwelling may be erected or moved to a line not less than one foot
(1') from an interior lot line; provided however, that no building shall be
erected or moved nearer than ten feet (10') from an existing dwelling. On the
street side of a corner lot there shall be a side yard having a width of not
less than ten feet (10'); provided, that where other lots at the rear of a
corner lot front on the side street, the side yard of the corner lot shall be
increased by not less than the space between the street line and a line from a
point on the rear line of the corner lot, twenty five feet (25') from the
street line of the side street, to a point on the side street line fifty feet
(50') from the rear line of said corner lot. Such triangular space shall
observe the requirements as specified for vision clearance.
   (F)   Intensity of Use of Lot: The building area shall not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the area of the lot. No building shall be erected on a lot
having an area of less than six thousand one hundred twenty five feet (6,125')
and a width of less than forty nine feet (49'). (1965 Code)
   (G)   Minimum Building Size: The minimum square footage requirements for any
single-family residential construction in the "B" Residential Zoning District
are as follows:
   Split-Levels: One thousand three hundred (1,300) square feet, excluding
crawl spaces, basements, porches, decks, garages, accessory buildings and other
spaces not used for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   Bungalows and Ranches: One thousand fifty (1,050) square feet, excluding
crawl spaces, basements, porches, decks, garages, accessory buildings and other
spaces not used for living, eating or sleeping purposes. (Ord. 94-04, 2-9-94)
   (H)   Vision Clearance: Vision clearance shall be provided on corner lots.
   (I)   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with Section 9.
   (J)   Brick Requirements: All residential dwelling units shall contain face
brick or stone on not less than fifty percent (50%) of exterior walls and shall
contain face brick or stone on one hundred percent (100%) of the first floors
or ground levels of such units. All materials used shall be compatible as a
group and with the surrounding structures. (Ord. 94-03, 2-9-94)
CHAPTER 4
"C" DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: "C" District Regulations
11-4-1: "C" DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the erection, alteration and use of
buildings and premises within the "C" Residential Districts.
   (A)   Use: No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be
erected or altered, which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used for
other than the following specified uses:
      1.   Any use permitted in an A" or "B" District.
      2.   Two-family dwellings.
      3.   Hospitals for other than contagious diseases.
      4.   Homes for aged or invalids.
      5.   Funeral parlors.
      6.   Medical and dental clinics.
      7.   Lodge halls and private club houses.
   (B)   Height: No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories in height.
   (C)   Front Yard: No building shall be erected or moved so that the street
wall thereof shall be less than twenty-five feet (25') from the street line,
and no fence, wall or hedge more than three and one-half feet (31/2') in height
shall be used to enclose such front yard.
   (D)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, that such yard shall be
not less than thirty feet (30') in depth.
   (E)   Side Yard: On each side of the building along an interior lot line
there shall be a side yard having a width of ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot but not less than five feet (5') except that a private garage at the
rear of the dwelling may be erected or moved to a fine not less than one foot
(1') from an interior lot line; provided however, that no building shall be
erected or moved nearer than ten feet (10') from an existing dwelling. On the
street side of a corner lot there shall be a side yard having a width of not
less than ten feet (10'); provided, where other lots at the rear of the corner
lot front on the side street, the side yard shall be increased by not less than
the space between the street line and a line from a point on the rear. Line of
the corner lot, twenty-five feet (25') from the street line of the fide street,
to a point on the side street line fifty feet (50') from the rear line of the
corner lot. Such triangular space shall observe the requirements as specified
for vision clearance.
   (F)   Intensity of Use of Lot: The building area shall not exceed thirty-
five percent (35%) of the area of an interior lot, nor exceed forty-five
percent (45%) of the area of a corner lot. No building shall be erected on a
lot having an area of less than six thousand one hundred and twenty-five square
feet (6,125 sq. ft.) and a width of less than forty-nine feet (49').
   (G)   Minimum Building Use: No building shall be erected having an area,
exclusive of any accessory building or attached garage of less than one
thousand two hundred and fifty square feet (1,250 sq ft.) of ground area;
provided, such building more than one (1) story in height may have less than
one thousand two hundred and fifty square feet (1,250 sq. ft.) of round area
but not less than one thousand four hundred square feet (1,400 sq. ft.) of
finished room floor area; and provided further, that single-family dwellings
erected in this District shall comply with the minimum requirements for such
buildings specified for "B" Residence Districts.
   (H)   Vision Clearance: Vision clearance shall be provided on corner lots.
   (I)   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with Section 9.
CHAPTER 5
"D" DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: "D" District Regulations
11-5-1: "D" DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the erection, alteration and use of
buildings and premises within the "D" residential districts:
   (A)   Use: No building or premises shall be used, and no building shall be
erected or altered which is arranged, intended or designed for other than the
following specified uses:
      1.   Any use permitted in an "A", "B", or "C" District.
      2.   Apartment buildings.
      3.   Apartment hotels.
      4.   Parking lots for automobiles of employees and customers of business
establishments adjacent to a "D" District.
   (B)   Height: No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') or two (2) stories
in height.
   (C)   Front Yard: No building shall be erected or moved so that the street
wall thereof shall be less than twenty-five feet (25') from the street line,
and no fence, wall or hedge more than three and one-half feet (31/2') in height
shall be used to enclose such front yard.
   (D)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10').
   (E)   Side Yard: On each side of the building along an interior lot line
there shall be a side yard having a width of not less than five feet (5'),
except that a private garage at the rear of a dwelling may be erected or moved
to a line not less than one foot (1') from an interior lot line; provided
however, no building shall be erected or moved nearer than ten feet (10') from
an existing dwelling. On the side street of a corner lot there shall be a side
yard having a width of not less than ten feet (10'); provided, where other lots
at the rear of a corner lot front on the side street, the side yard shall be
increased by not less than the space between the street line and a line from a
point on the rear line of the corner lot, twenty-five feet (25') from the
street line of the side street, to a point on the side street line fifty feet
(50') from the rear line of the corner lot. Such triangular space shall observe
the requirements as specified for vision clearance.
   (F)   Intensity of Use of Lot: The building area shall not exceed forty
percent (40%) of the area of the lot. No building shall be erected on a of
having an area which will not provide at least nine hundred square feet (900
sq. ft.) of lot area for each family to be housed therein, and having a width
of less than forty-nine feet (49').
   (G)   Minimum Building Size: No building shall be erected having an area
less than one thousand two hundred and fifty square feet (1250 sq. ft.),
exclusive of any accessory buildings; provided, that single-family and two-
family dwellings erected in this District shall comply with the minimum
requirements for such buildings specified for "B" and "C" Districts,
respectively.
   (H)   Vision Clearance: Vision clearance shall be provided on all corner
lots.
   (I)   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with Section 9.
CHAPTER 6
"E" AND "F" DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: "E" and "F" District Regulations
11-6-1: "E" AND "F" DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the construction, alteration and use of
buildings and premises within the "E" and "F" Business Districts:
   (A)   No building or premises within "E" Business Districts shall be used
and no building shall be erected or altered which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than the following specified or similar uses.
Business establishments as follows:
Group 1.
Bakeries
Banks
Beauty shops
Beauty parlors
Book stores
Camera and photo supply stores
Candy stores
Carpet and rug stores
China and glassware stores
Clothing stores
Delicatessens
Department stores
Drug stores
Dry cleaning receiving stations
Dry cleaning establishments, using no explosive or flammable cleaning agents
Dry goods stores
Electrical and household appliance stores
Florist shops and greenhouses
Food stores
Frozen food stores including locker rental
Furniture stores
Garden supply and seed stores
Gift shops
Grocery stores
Hardware stores
Haberdasheries
Ice cream and soft drink parlors, snack bars
Hobby shops
Jewelry stores, including watch and clock repair
Kennels and dealers in animals
Launderettes
Laundries
Leather goods and luggage stores
Liquor stores, package
Meat and fish markets
Millinery shops
Musical instrument sales and repair
Newspaper distribution agencies
Offices, business and professional
Office supply stores
Optical sales, retail
Paint and wallpaper stores
Pet shops
Phonograph, record and sheet music stores
Photography studios, including developing
Plumbing showrooms and shops
Picture framing
Retail stores (no automobiles)
Radio and televisions sales, service and repair
Secondhand stores and rummage shops
Shoe and hat repair shops
Shoe stores
Sporting goods stores
Tailor shops
Telegraph and telephone offices
Tobacco shops
Toy shops
Upholstery stores and shops
Variety stores
Group 2.
Cartage, express and hauling business
Commercial storage establishments (no automobiles)
Handwork shops (no automobiles)
Post office
Printing establishment
Sales office and sample room (no automobiles)
Carpentry, heating and roofing supply and work shops
Group 3.
Billboards and signs
Exhibition halls
Motels
Hotels
Parking lots
Railroad station
Restaurants, no liquor served
Theatres (Ord. 81-4, 6-23-81)
   (B)   No building or premises within an "F" Business District shall be
erected or altered and no building shall be used which is arranged, intended or
designed for other use than the following specified uses:
      1.   Any use permitted in an "E" Business District.
      2.   Taverns, Bowling Alleys, Skating Rinks and Dance Halls, Pool and
Billiard Parlors or Halls.
   (C)   Height of Buildings: No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') or two
(2) stories in height; provided, that chimneys, stacks, penthouses and elevated
water towers may extend to a height of fifty five feet (55').
   (D)   Building Line Setback: There shall be no building line setbacks in an
"E" or an "F" zoning district, and, subject to the other applicable provisions
of the Village Code, the building may be constructed to the property line.
   (E)   Intensity of Use of Lot and Automobile Parking Space: The building
area shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the area of the lot where Village
sewers are available and shall not exceed sixty five percent (65%) of the area
of the lot where Village sewers are not available. The building area may be at
the front side, or rear of the lot and the open space shall be available for
parking of customers' and employees' automobiles, parking of trucks, for
loading and unloading of supplies and such other uses as tend to reduce
obstruction to traffic on public streets, as required in Chapter 8; provided,
that public garages having enclosed parking spaces may occupy the entire lot
area.
   (F)   Minimum Building Size: Any dwelling erected or altered in the "E" or
"F" Districts shall comply with the regulations of the District applicable to
the type of the dwelling. Any apartments erected or altered in the "E" or "F"
Districts shall comply with the regulations of the "D" District, except that
the front yard need not exceed five feet (5'), measured from the building line
as established in Subsection (D). Not to exceed one (1) apartment may be
erected over any store building for each twenty five feet (25') of frontage
thereof.
   (G)   The owner of any lot or plot classified in this Title as in an "E" or
"F" District, which has no public alley in the rear thereof, shall provide a
public alley along the rear of the lot or plot, not less than twenty feet (20')
in width, by dedication or other legal conveyance to the Village before any
building permit for construction or alteration on the lot or plot having a
depth of one hundred fifty feet (150') or more, an alley may not be required if
the owner provides off-street loading and unloading areas adequate to serve the
use intended for the lot or plot in addition to the off-street parking spaces
as required in Chapter 8 thereof; and provided further, that the use and
development of adjacent property will not be adversely affected by the alley
not being provided. (1965 Code)
   (H)   Screening And Landscaping: All open automobile parking areas,
containing four (4) or more parking spaces, located less than forty feet (40')
from the nearest property line of a lot in a residence district, shall be
effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on such property line
by a wall, solid fence, or densely planted compact hedge, not to exceed four
feet (4') in height.
   (I)   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance and in a parking area containing four (4) or more parking
spaces such lighting shall be extinguished not more than one-half (1/2) hour
after the close of business, except as may be required for safety precautions.
(Ord. 86-31, 11-11-1986)
   (J)   Exterior Design Standards: Brick or other approved masonry materials
shall be used for all sides of all nonresidential development, within any
zoning district designated as Class "E" or "F" business. All materials shall be
installed per Village Building Code Specifications. (Ord. 95-22, 1-9-1996)
CHAPTER 7
"G" DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: "G" District Regulations
11-7-1: "G" DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the use of buildings and premises within
the "G" Industrial Districts. Any use established in and industrial district
after the effective date of this Title shall be operated so as to comply with
the performance standards and other requirements listed herein. No use already
established on the effective date of this Title shall be so modified or altered
as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the performance standards.
   (A)   Uses: Subject to the following regulations, restrictions and
performance standards, "G" District uses are limited to the following: storage,
utilization, or manufacture of materials or products, and the sale or leasing
of trucks, trailers, and other heavy industrial equipment including the
storage, transportation, loading and unloading, and minor maintenance of such
vehicles and equipment.
   Activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials
or products which decompose by detonation are not permitted in the "G"
Industrial District.
   Such materials shall include, but shall not be limited to, all primary
explosives such as lead azide, lead styphnate, fulminates, and tetracene; all
high explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, PETN, and picric acid; propellants and
components thereof, such as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydrides,
hydrogen and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks such as magnesium
powder, potassium chlorate, and potassium nitrate; blasting explosives such as
dynamite and nitroglycerine; unstable organic compounds such as acetylides,
telrazoles, and ozonides; strong oxidizing agents such as liquid oxygen,
perchloric acid, perchlorates, chlorates, and hydrogen peroxide in
concentrations greater than thirty five percent (35%); and nuclear fuels,
fissionable materials and products, and reactor elements such as Uranium 235
and Plutonium 239.
   Uses permitted in the "G" Industrial District are subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   All business, operations, or processings, except for off- street
parking and off-street loading shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings, unless otherwise indicated hereinafter.
      2.   All storage within twenty five feet (25") of a residence district
boundary, except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall be within
completely enclosed buildings. All open storage areas adjacent to a residence
or business district shall be screened therefrom by a wall fence, or dense
hedge six feet (6") in height.
   (B)   Performance Standards; Noise: In the "G" Industrial District, at no
point on the boundary of a residence or business district shall the sound
pressure level of any operation or plant, other than background noises produced
by sources not under control of the industrial user, such as the operation of
motor vehicles or other transportation facilities, exceed the decibel limits in
the octave bands designated below.
Octave Band Frequency  Maximum Permitted Sound
(Cycles Per Second)    Level (In Decibels) Along
                       Residence Property Line
Octave Band Frequency  Maximum Permitted Sound
(Cycles Per Second)    Level (In Decibels) Along
                       Residence Property Line
   0 to 75          72
   75 to 150        67
   150 to 300       59
   300 to 600       52
   600 to 1200      46
   1200 to 2400     40
   2400 to 4800     34
   above 4800       32
Octave Band Frequency  Maximum Permitted Sound
(Cycles Per Second)    Level (In Decibels) Along
                       Business Property Line
   0 to 75          79
   75 to 150        74
   150 to 300       66
   300 to 600       59
   600 to 1200      53
   1200 to 2400     47
   2400 to 4800     41
   above 4800       39
 
Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated octave
band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American
Standards Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network of the
sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the performance
standards hereinafter prescribed; provided, that such noises shall be capable
of being accurate )y measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so
measures, for the purpose of this Title, shall be those noises which cause
rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of
no more than plus or minus two (2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so
measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall be
measured with the impact noise analyzer as manufactured by the General Radio
Company or its equivalent. Impacts shall meet the noise performance standards.
   (C)   Performance Standards; Vibration: In the "G" Industrial District, any
industrial operation or activity which shall cause at any time and at any point
along a Residence property line, earth borne vibrations in excess of the limits
set forth in Column I is prohibited. Vibration shall be expressed as
displacement in inches and shall be measured with a three- component measuring
system approved by the Zoning Administrator.
 
Frequency           I
(Cycles Per Second) Displacement
                    (Inches)
   0 to 10       .0004
   10 to 20      .0002
   20 to 30      .0001
   30 to 40      .0001
   40 and over   .0001
 
The foregoing displacement values are for steady state vibration, that is,
vibrations occurring in discrete pulses in excess of one hundred (100) times
per minute. When discrete pulses of vibration occur at one hundred (100) times
per minute or less, twice the displacement values above are permitted.
   (D)   Performance Standards; Smoke and Particulate Matter: In the "G"
Industrial District, the emission of more than ten (10) smoke units per hour
per stack is prohibited, including smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann
No. 2. However, once during any six (6) hour period each stack may emit up to
twenty (20) smoke units, not to exceed Ringelmann No. 2, when blowing soot or
cleaning fires. Only during fire cleaning periods, however, shall smoke of
Ringelmann No. 3 be permitted, and then not more than four (4) minutes per
period. The rate of emission of particulate matter from all sources within the
boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of one (1) pound per acre
of lot area during any one (1) hour.
In addition to the performance standards specified, the emission of smoke or
particulate matter in such manner or quantity as to be detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and shall henceforth be unlawful.
For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Chart,
published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, shall be employed. The
emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density greater than No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
hereinafter.
The emission, from all sources within an lot area, of particulate matter
containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of particles having a particle
diameter larger than forty-four (44) microns is prohibited.
Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such sources as
storage areas, yards, roads, and so forth within lot boundaries shall be kept
to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, or other acceptable
means. Emission or particulate matter from such sources in excess of the weight
limitations specified hereinafter for the district in which such use shall be
located is prohibited.
   (E)   Performance Standards; Toxic Matter: In the "G" Industrial District,
no activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of toxic
matter across Pot lines in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
   (F)   Performance Standards; Noxious and Odorous Matter: In the "G"
Industrial District, no activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the
discharge of matter across the lot lines in such concentrations as to be
noxious. The omission of gaseous matter is such quantities as to be readily
detectable as an odor at any point along or beyond lot lines is prohibited.
   (G)   Performance Standards; Fire and Explosive Hazards: In the "G"
Industrial District, the storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid
materials or products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is
prohibited.
The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or products ranging
from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted provided the
following condition is met: Said materials or products shall be stored,
utilized, or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having
incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire
extinguishing system.
The storage, utilization, or manufacture of flammable liquids, or materials
(See *) which produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases, shall be
permitted in accordance with the following table, exclusive of storage of
finished products in original sealed containers, which shall be unrestricted:
      Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted (In Gallons)
 
Industries Engaged                                      Aboveground Underground
in Storage Only
Materials having a closed cup flash point over (187°F.)Prohibited  100,000
From and including (105°F.) to and including (187°F.) Prohibited  40,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less than  Prohibited  20,000
(105°F.)
 
*When flammable gases are stored, utilized, or manufactured and measured in
cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet (at S. T. P.) permitted shall not exceed
three hundred (300) times the quantities listed above.
 
Industries Engaged in                                   Aboveground Underground
Utilization and Manufacture of Flammable
Materials having a closed cup flash point over (187°F.)15,000      100,000
From and including (105°F.) to and including (187°F.) 5,000       40,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less than  500         10,000
(105°F.)
 
ALL uses of flammable materials shall meet the requirements of the State
Department of Public Safety.
   (H)   Performance Standards; Glare and Heat: In the "G" Industrial District
any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed in such manner
as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources
of light shall be controlled so as not to cause in a Residence District
illuminations in excess of 0.1 foot candle.
   (I)   Performance Standards; Certification: Each application for an
Industrial Use, in addition to the requirements set forth, shall be accompanied
by a certification from a registered Professional Engineer in the State stating
that the intended use will comply with all of the performance standards. The
Superintendent of Buildings then has fifteen (15) days in which to approve or
disapprove the application, during which time he may consult with appropriate
experts to determine compliance with the performance standards.
   (J)   Height of Buildings: No building shall exceed forty feet (40') or
three (3) stories in height; provided, that chimneys, stacks, penthouses and
water tanks may extend to a height of seventy feet (70'). (1965 Code)
   (K)   Building Line Setback: There shall be no building line setback in a
"G" zoning district, and, subject to the other applicable provisions of the
Village Code, the building may be constructed to the property line. (Ord. 79-
17, 11-13-79)
   (L)   Intensity of Use of Lot and Auto Parking Space: Except on section line
and half-section line streets, the building area may occupy the entire lot
area. Any use or occupancy requiring the loading or unloading of street
vehicles shall provide suitable and sufficient space for such operations to be
conducted on private property; and in any such use or occupancy off-street
parking space for employees' automobiles shall be provided in accordance with
Chapter 8 of this Title. (1965 Code; amd. Ord. 79-17, 11-13-1979; Ord. 2023-30,
11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 8
OFF-STREET PARKING
SECTION:
11-8-1: Scope of Regulations
11-8-2: Existing Parking Facilities
11-8-3: Control of Off-street Parking Facilities
11-8-4: Plot Plan to Show Parking Facilities
11-8-5: Location of Parking Spaces
11-8-6: Lighting Requirements
11-8-7: Determination of Number of Spaces
11-8-8: Spaces to Open on Driveway
11-8-9: Screening of Lots
11-8-10: Surfacing of Parking Lots
11-8-11: Number of Parking Spaces Required
11-8-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The Off-Street parking provisions of this comprehensive amendment shall apply
as follows:
   (A)   For all buildings erected and all uses established after the effective
date of this Title, accessory parking facilities, shall be provided as required
in this Section.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building or premises shall be
increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity, or other units of measurement specified herein for required parking
facilities, parking facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use.
   (C)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking facilities shall be provided as required for
such new use.
   (D)   Off-Street parking facilities shall be provided wholly upon private
property and any parking area available on public streets shall not be
considered as reducing the off-street requirements in this Section specified.
As per the definition in Section 11-1-2 hereof, a street is all that area
between property lines on each side thereof and is not limited to the portion
of such area as may be improved with a pavement, but includes such area as well
as any parking lane, parkway and sidewalk.
11-8-2: EXISTING PARKING FACILITIES:
Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on the effective date of
this Title shall not hereafter be reduced below the requirements of this Title.
11-8-3: CONTROL OF OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
In cases where parking facilities are permitted on land other than the zoning
lot on which the building or use served is located, such facilities shall be in
the same possession as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use to which
the parking facilities are accessory.
11-8-4: PLOT PLAN TO SHOW PARKING FACILITIES:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this Title.
11-8-5: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES:
Parking spaces required shall be located on the same zoning lot as the building
or use to be served; except that in cases where space in a business or
industrial district is limited by existing uses or developments, parking spaces
may be located on a separate zoning lot; provided, such facilities are within
three hundred feet (300') walking distance of a main entrance to the use
served.
11-8-6: LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be directed away
from residential properties in such a way as not to interfere with the
residential use.
11-8-7: DETERMINATION OF NUMBER OF SPACES:
When the determination of the number of parking spaces required is based on
number of employees, the owner or manager shall be counted as an employee.
11-8-8: SPACES TO OPEN ON DRIVEWAY:
Each off-street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway of
such width as will provide adequate means of vehicular access to such parking
space. Access to a public street shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') in
width.
11-8-9: SCREENING OF LOTS:
All open parking areas containing more than four (4) parking spaces shall be
screened from an adjoining residential area by a wall, fence or compact hedge
five feet (5') in height.
11-8-10: SURFACING OF PARKING LOTS:
An open parking area containing more than four (4) parking spaces shall be
surfaced with an all weather, dustless material (seal coat or better) and
adequate drainage shall be provided. Surface drainage across a public sidewalk
is not permitted where Village storm sewers are available. Open parking areas
containing four (4) parking spaces or less may be surfaced with macadam or a
like material, adequately maintained as to surface and drainage by the owner or
lessee.
11-8-11: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
The number of parking spaces required for each use shall be as follows: (1965
Code)
   (A)   One off street parking space shall be required for each single family
dwelling and one and one-half (11/2) off street parking spaces shall be
required for each dwelling unit, as defined by the Village of Posen Building
and Zoning Codes, in each two (2) family and apartment building. (Ord. 72-1, 1-
25-72)
   (B)   The following uses shall provide one (1) parking space for each six
(6) seats:
      1.   Churches.
      2.   School auditoriums.
      3.   Theatres.
      4.   Funeral parlors.
   (C)   The following uses shall provide parking spaces equal in number to
twenty five percent (25%) of the capacity of the facility in persons:
      1.   Restaurants.
      2.   Taverns, bars, and cocktail lounges.
      3.   Club houses.
      4.   Lodge halls.
      5.   Exhibition halls.
   (D)   The following uses shall provide one (1) parking space for each two
(2) employees on maximum working shift:
      1.   All uses listed under Group 2 in Section
11-6-1.
      2.   Schools, high or elementary.
      3.   Police stations.
      4.   Fire station.
      5.   Libraries.
      6.   Permitted Industries.
   (E)   The following uses shall provide one (1) parking space for each two
(2) employees on maximum working shift and one (1) parking space for each two
hundred square feet (200 sq. ft.) of floor area in excess of one thousand
square feet (1000 sq. ft.). All uses listed under Group 1 in Section
11-6-1.
   (F)   The following uses shall provide parking spaces as specified:
      1.   Hospitals, one (1) space for each two (2) employees on maximum
working shift, plus one (1) space for each staff doctor.
      2.   Homes for aged or invalids, one (1) space for each four (4) beds and
one (1) space for each two (2) employees on maximum working shift.
      3.   Medical and dental clinics, three (3) spaces for each staff doctor.
      4.   High schools, one (1) space for each ten (10) students (in addition
to spaces required under other provisions hereof).
      5.   Bowling alleys, five (5) spaces for each alley, plus one (1) space
for each two (2) employees. Restaurants, bars and cocktail lounges as required
herein for such uses, in addition to the foregoing.
      6.   Hotels, one (1) space for each three (3) lodging rooms plus one (1)
space for each two (2) employees on maximum working shift.
      7.   Motels f one (1) space for each lodging unit plus one (1) space for
each two (2) employees on maximum working shift.
      8.   Railroad station, one (1) parking space for each five (5)
commutation tickets in maximum daily use based on annual average.
      9.   Industrial, one (1) space for each two (2) employees on maximum
working shift.
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING AND INCIDENTAL USES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
11-9-2: Changing To Higher Classification
11-9-3: Incidental Uses
11-9-4: Professional Office; Display Of Sign
11-9-5: Bulletin Boards Permitted
11-9-6: Renting Of Rooms In Residential Districts (Rep. by Ord. 2004-04, 3-9-
2004)
11-9-7: For Sale Signs
11-9-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of this title
may be continued although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof.
A nonconforming use occupying a part of a building may be extended throughout
that part of a building designed for such use, but no addition shall be made
which will provide an expansion of the nonconforming use. (1965 Code)
11-9-2: CHANGING TO HIGHER CLASSIFICATION:
A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the same or higher
classification according to the provisions of this title. Whenever a district
shall be hereafter changed, any then existing nonconforming use in such changed
district may be continued or changed to a use of a similar or higher
classification; provided, all other regulations governing the new use are
complied with. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or premises has been
discontinued for a period of one year or changed to a higher classification or
to a conforming use, such nonconforming use shall not thereafter be
reestablished or changed to a use of a lower classification.
No building which has been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its value shall be repaired or rebuilt except
in conformity with the regulations of this title. (1965 Code)
11-9-3: INCIDENTAL USES:
Unless otherwise prohibited or restricted, a permitted use also allows uses,
buildings and structures incidental thereto if located on the same premises or
building plot. However, such uses or accessory buildings shall not be
established or erected prior to the establishment or construction of the
principal use or building and shall be compatible with the character of the
principal use. A professional office or home occupation may be conducted in
connection with any dwelling. (1965 Code)
11-9-4: PROFESSIONAL OFFICE; DISPLAY OF SIGN:
A professional office in a residential district may display an informational
sign relating thereto having an area of not to exceed two (2) square feet. A
home occupation in a residential district shall not use or exhibit any sign or
display to advertise such occupation. (1965 Code)
11-9-5: BULLETIN BOARDS PERMITTED:
Church or public building bulletin boards may be erected in a residential
district; provided such bulletin boards shall not exceed twenty four (24)
square feet in area. (1965 Code)
11-9-6: RENTING OF ROOMS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-04, 3-9-2004)
11-9-7: FOR SALE SIGNS:
   (A)   Residential Districts Zoned A, B, C And D: In residential districts
zoned A, B, C and D, it shall be permissible to erect one sign advertising
subject property as "for sale". Said sign shall be no larger than eighteen
inches (18") in height by thirty two inches (32") in width. Sign shall be
erected parallel to the front side of the property on which it is located, and
shall not exceed five feet (5') in height over existing grade. Sign shall also
be placed no closer than six feet (6') from the front property line, if proper
setback from the front property line does not exist then sign shall be placed
as close to the structure as possible. Under no circumstances shall any sign be
erected on village right of way, or easement.
   (B)   Permit And Fees: Prior to the erection of any signs advertising
property as "for sale" an application must be filled out and approved by the
village building department. The fee for said permit shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00), payable to the village. Said permit shall be good for a
period of six (6) months. If after a period of six (6) months said sign is
still needed a new permit must be applied for.
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined in a sum not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such violation continues. (Ord.
94-24, 9-28-1994)
CHAPTER 9A
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
11-9A-1: Authority
11-9A-2: Procedure
11-9A-1: AUTHORITY:
The Board of Trustees, with the approval of the Village President, shall have
the authority to permit the following uses of land or structures, or both,
within the Village subject to the conditions contained herein provided that the
said Corporate Authorities find that the proposed location and establishment of
any such use will be desirable or necessary to the public convenience or
welfare and will be harmonious and compatible with other uses adjacent to and
in the vicinity of the proposed sites:
   Auto repair operations.
   Currency exchanges.
   Motor vehicle repair shops.
   Motor vehicle sales businesses.
   Any other use not specifically provided for in A, B, C, D, E, F, and G
Districts. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-13-2018)
11-9A-2: PROCEDURE:
The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Application And Notification: Refer to section
2-1-3A of this Code.
   (B)   Public Hearing: Refer to section
2-1-3B of this Code.
   (C)   Findings And Recommendations: The Plan Commission shall report its
findings and recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees within thirty
(30) days following the date of public hearing on each application. The Board
of Trustees and the Village President may authorize a "special use" provided
the evidence presented establishes that:
      1.   The proposed use at the particular location requested is necessary
or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the interest of
public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of the
neighborhood or community;
      2.   The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      3.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this chapter for such use, and with the stipulations and
conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the Village Board of
Trustees and Village President. (Ord. 00-21, 11-14-2000)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Conformity Of Front Yards
11-10-2: Garages Facing Alley; Setback
11-10-3: Survey Plats
11-10-4: Occupancy Permits
11-10-5: Recreational Or Commercial Vehicle Parking Regulations For
Residentially Zoned Districts
11-10-6: Accessory Buildings, Including Private Garages; Limits; Size; Location
And Number
11-10-7: Surfacing Of Verges In Business And Industrial Districts
11-10-1: CONFORMITY OF FRONT YARDS:
Where a block or part of a block in a residential district is occupied or
partially occupied by a permanent dwelling at the time of the passage of this
title, the minimum front yard as required shall be the greater of the front
yards of the next adjacent dwellings; provided that no front yard of less than
fifteen feet (15') shall be permitted and no front yard of more than twenty
five feet (25') shall be required, except where a front yard in excess of
twenty five feet (25') is established in a subdivision of record. Corner lots
shall in all cases provide the front yard elsewhere required in this title,
except where a greater front yard is required by a subdivision of record.
Where a business or industrial district occupies part of a block within a
residential district the building on the residential lot immediately adjoining
the business or industrial district shall be permitted to observe only one-half
(1/2) the front yard required of the remaining residential lots in the block.
(1965 Code)
11-10-2: GARAGES FACING ALLEY; SETBACK:
No private garage having vehicular access from a public alley shall be erected,
altered or moved so that the wall thereof nearest the alley, containing the
entrance doors, shall be less than five feet (5') from the line common to the
lot and the alley. (1965 Code)
11-10-3: SURVEY PLATS:
Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a survey plat in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the size of the building to be erected, the setback of existing buildings
in the block and all other information that may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this title. A record of such applications and plats shall be
kept in the office of the superintendent of buildings. (1965 Code)
11-10-4: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
No building hereinafter erected, enlarged or altered, shall be occupied or
used, in whole or in part, until a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued by the superintendent of buildings certifying that the building conforms
to the provisions of this and the building code.
No change of occupancy or use shall be made in a building that is inconsistent
with the last issued certificate of occupancy for such building, unless the
superintendent of buildings finds upon inspection that such building conforms
substantially to the provisions of this and the building code with respect to
the proposed new occupancy and use. (1965 Code)
11-10-5: RECREATIONAL OR COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS FOR
RESIDENTIALLY ZONED DISTRICTS:
Recreational or commercial vehicles excluding those that are service vehicles
under five (5) tons such as step vans, service vans, pickups, etc. Parking
regulations - residentially zoned districts.
   (A)   Definition: For purposes of this section, the term "recreational or
commercial vehicle" shall mean any vehicle not having a private passenger
automobile license plate (any vehicle which is not a vehicle of the first
division as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-146 and 5/1-147), including, but not
limited to, any boat, trailer, snowmobile, camper, house trailer, motor home or
commercial truck and excluding those that are service vehicles under five (5)
tons such as step vans, service vans, pickups, etc.
   (B)   Prohibited Parking: Outdoor parking of recreational or commercial
vehicles on private property or upon street, alley or any public thoroughfare
within any A or B residential zoning district as defined by chapter 3 of this
title, is prohibited except as allowed by subsections (C) and (D) of this
section. (Ord. 87-19, 10-13-1987)
   (C)   Permitted Parking:
      1.   It is permissible to park one (1) unoccupied recreational or
commercial vehicle on a lot located in an A or B Residential Zoning District,
on an all weather, dustless hard surface (seal coat or better) designed to
accommodate parking, provided, however, that such vehicle shall not be parked
or stored within three feet (3') of any lot line or within any front yard; with
the exception, however, that it shall be unlawful in any event to park any of
the following vehicles anywhere in an A or B Residential Zoning District: (Ord.
2004-02, 3-9-2004)
         (a)   Tow trucks, car carriers or other vehicle used for
transportation or towing of motor vehicles;
         (b)   Commercial vehicles which are required to have other than a
Class B State of Illinois license plate as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-815; and excluding those that are service vehicles under five (5)
tons such as step vans, service vans, pickups, etc.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles which are in excess of eight thousand
(8,000) pounds' gross weight (vehicle weight and maximum load). (Ord. 2003-12,
6-24-2003)
      2.   Commercial vehicles, ten thousand (10,000) pounds or less, required
to have a Class B State of Illinois license plate as defined by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-815 may be parked on streets in A or B Residential Zones,
provided such parking is not in violation of any other provisions of this Code
or of the laws of the State. This exception for permitted parking shall not
apply to, and parking anywhere in an A or B Residential Zoning District is not
permitted for, truck tractors (known also as semitractors or semitractor cabs)
as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-212. (Ord. 2010-14, 11-14-
2010)
   (D)   Certain Temporary Parking Permitted: Recreational and commercial
vehicles may be parked in an A or B Residential District on private property,
other than in conformance with subsection (C) of this section, temporarily for
such time as is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading and/or
unloading of said vehicles when making pick ups and/or deliveries, or when
preparing for, or upon a return from, a vacation or trip, by the owner or user
thereof.
   (E)   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to licensed and registered
antique or handicapped automobiles.
   (F)   Short Term Visitor's Parking:
      1.   The Chief of Police may, upon written application, issue a permit
allowing a visitor's recreational or commercial vehicle to be parked on a
private driveway in an A or B Residential District for a period not to exceed
fourteen (14) days; provided, however, that the visitor agrees to maintain the
vehicle in such fashion so as to avoid interfering with regular vehicular
traffic or the enjoyment of adjoining residential dwellings.
      2.   A decision of the Chief of Police to deny a permit requested
pursuant to subsection (F)1 of this section may be appealed by the applicant
directly to the Village Board of Trustees who shall, as soon as practicable,
hold a hearing thereon and issue a written decision affirming or reversing said
denial.
   (G)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation continues. (Ord. 87-19, 10-13-1987)
11-10-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, INCLUDING PRIVATE GARAGES; LIMITS; SIZE; LOCATION
AND NUMBER:
   (A)   An "accessory building" is hereby defined to be a subordinate
building, including private garage, the use of which is clearly incidental to
that of a main building; and the term "private garage", as recited in section
11-1-1 of this title, shall mean an accessory building designed for the
occupancy of not more than two (2) passenger motor vehicles of the family
residing on the same premises or in which space is provided for not more than
one (1) automobile rented to a person not an occupant of the premises. (Ord.
78-14, 9-12-1978)
   (B)   No accessory building, except a private garage, shall be constructed,
altered, or maintained in any Residential Zoning District designated A, B, C,
or D as defined in chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title, to exceed one hundred
(100) square feet in area and eight feet (8') in building height. No private
garage shall exceed the following dimensions:
      1.   Nine feet (9') in wall height. (Ord. 2017-04, 6-13-2017)
      2.   Fourteen feet (14') in building height, which shall mean the
vertical from the established grade to the highest roof point.
      3.   Twenty four feet (24') in length or width.
         (a)   Special provision: Private garages constructed on any lot which
is at least fifty feet (50') in width shall not exceed thirty two feet (32') in
width and twenty four feet (24') in length. (Ord. 86-30, 11-11-1986)
   (C)   No accessory building, including a private garage, located in any
residential zoning district designated A, B, C or D, as defined in chapters 3,
4 and 5 of this title, shall be constructed or altered to place the foundation
of said building:
      1.   Closer than three feet (3') from any side lot line; (Ord. 78-14, 9-
12-1978)
      2.   Closer than three feet (3') from the rear lot line; five feet (5')
when vehicular access is from the public alley; (Ord. 2005-06, 8-9-2005)
      3.   In violation of any building line restrictions; and
      4.   Any portion thereof in a public easement.
   (D)   No accessory building, including a private garage, located in any
residential zoning district designated A, B, C or D, as defined in chapters 3,
4 and 5 of this title, shall be constructed or altered to place the foundation
of said building more than one hundred feet (100') from the residential
building, or the main building, for which said accessory building, or private
garage, is subordinate, incidental, adjoining or appurtenant.
   (E)   No more than one private garage shall be constructed on each
residential zoning district lot, which garage shall conform to the construction
limits stated in this section.
   (F)   In addition to the one private garage permitted by subsection (E) of
this section, only one other accessory building (within the construction limits
stated in this section) shall be constructed, or permitted, on each residential
zoning district lot. (Ord. 78-14, 9-12-1978)
11-10-7: SURFACING OF VERGES IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   (A)   As used in this Section, “verge” shall mean the area of land between
the street and any property, extending from the street to any grass, sidewalk
or fence on the property. A verge may include an area of up to twenty-five feet
(25') between the street and property.
   (B)   This Section shall apply to E, F and G Zoning Districts within the
Village, commonly referred to as Business and Industrial Districts.
   (C)   All loose gravel, grindings, or other materials deemed not acceptable
by the Village Building Department shall not be used to surface a verge within
E, F and G Zoning Districts.
   (D)   Acceptable materials for verge surfaces include concrete, asphalt,
grindings, or other stable surfacing materials, if approved by the Village’s
Building Department.
   (E)   In all cases, the determination of the Village’s Building Department
with respect to verge surfacing is final, subject to the review process
contained in Village Code.
   (F)   The provisions of this Section shall be implemented and complied with
by all affected landowners no later than August 31, 2023. (Ord. 2022-20, 8-9-
2022)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-11-1: Enforcement By Building Commissioner
11-11-2: Appeals From Rulings Of Building Commissioner
11-11-3: Amendments; Hearing Required
11-11-4: Written Protests To Amendments
11-11-5: Completion Of Buildings Under Existing Permits
11-11-6: Issuance Of Permits Pending Zoning Change
11-11-1: ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
This title shall be enforced by the building commissioner. The building
commissioner is hereby empowered and it shall be his duty to administer this
title in conjunction with the administration of such portions of this code as
are commonly designated as the building code, in such a manner as to facilitate
their joint administration. For the purpose of enforcing this title, the
authority vested in him under the building code is hereby declared to be vested
in him under this title. (Ord. 00-20, 11-14-2000)
11-11-2: APPEALS FROM RULINGS OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
Appeal from the rulings of the building commissioner concerning the enforcing
of the provisions of this title shall be made to the plan commission within
such time as shall be prescribed by the plan commission by general rule. (Ord.
00-20, 11-14-2000)
11-11-3: AMENDMENTS; HEARING REQUIRED:
Refer to sections
2-1-3A and
2-1-3B of this code. (Ord. 00-20, 11-14-2000)
11-11-4: WRITTEN PROTESTS TO AMENDMENTS:
Refer to section
2-1-3C of this code. (Ord. 00-20, 11-14-2000)
11-11-5: COMPLETION OF BUILDINGS UNDER EXISTING PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any changes in the plans, construction
or designated use of a building for which a building permit has been heretofore
issued, and the construction of which shall have been diligently prosecuted
within three (3) months of the date of the permit, and which entire building
shall have been completed according to plans as filed within one year from the
date of passage of this title. (Ord. 00-20, 11-14-2000)
11-11-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS PENDING ZONING CHANGE:
No permit for the erection of any building or structure, or license or permit
for the conduct of any use, shall be issued for a period of three (3) months
after the question of amending the zoning title, so as to prohibit the use or
building contemplated in the area concerned, has been referred by the board of
trustees to a board or commission to hold a public hearing on the question of
adopting such amendment; provided, that if final action by the board of
trustees is not taken on the question within three (3) months of the time the
matter is so referred to hold a public hearing, the permit shall be issued. If
within such three (3) months' period the board of trustees shall pass an
ordinance amending the zoning title so as to prohibit such building, structure
or use, no such permit shall be issued.
No permit shall be issued for the erection of any building or structure, other
than a residence building, until after the next regular or special meeting of
the board of trustees, following the application therefor. If at such meeting
the question of amending the zoning title so as to prohibit the erection of
such building or structure on the site concerned is referred to some board or
commission to hold public hearings thereon, the issuance of such permit shall
be deferred in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 00-20, 11-
14-2000)
CHAPTER 12
BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. by Ord. 88-05, 2-23-1988)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-13-1: Occupancy Permits
11-13-2: Contents of Applications
11-13-3: Enforcement; Violation
11-13-4: Boundaries of Districts
11-13-1: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected or
altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any purpose
whatsoever until a certificate shall have been issued by the Building
Commissioner, stating that the building complies with all the Building and
Health laws and ordinances and with the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   No change of use shall be made in any building or part thereof, now or
hereafter erected or altered that is not consistent with the provisions of this
Code. Nothing in this Section shall prevent the present occupancy or use of any
existing building, except as may be necessary for safety of life and property.
   (C)   Certificates for occupancy and compliance shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be issued
within ten (10) days after the erection or alteration of such buildings shall
have been completed.
   (D)   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Building Commissioner and copies shall be furnished on request, to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the buildings affected. A
fee of two dollars ($2.00) shall be charged for each original certificate and
one dollar ($1.00) for each copy thereof.
   (E)   No permit for excavation for the erection of any building shall be
issued before application has been made for certificate of occupancy and
compliance. No buildings or premises maybe occupied until such certificate
shall have been issued.
   (F)   No excavation for the erection of any building shall be made until
permit for the erection of such building has been granted by the Building
Commissioner. The penalty for any violation of this provision shall be fixed by
the Village Board.
11-13-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS:
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate, drawn to a scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size of the building to be erected, and such other information
as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A
careful record of such applications and plots shall be kept in the office of
the Building Commissioner.
11-13-3: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. The Building Commissioner is hereby
designated and authorized to enforce this Chapter.
11-13-4: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map on file in the office of the Village Clerk and
made a part of this title, the following rules apply:
   (A)   The District Boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown and where the designations on said map, on file and made part of this
title, indicating the various districts, are approximately bounded by street or
alley lines, such street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of such
district.
CHAPTER 14
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
CHAPTER 14A
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2008-21, 11-25-2008)
CHAPTER 15
SOIL EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
11-15-1: Definitions
11-15-2: General Principles
11-15-3: Site Development Permit
11-15-4: Operation Standards and Requirements
11-15-5: Enforcement
11-15-6: Violations and Penalties
11-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter of the Village Code, certain terms herein are
defined as stated herein:
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests where required have been performed and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this Chapter.
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of "average end areas".
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by a
person or persons, to another location and shall include the conditions
resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the State of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction, or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is formed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village of Posen for the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, clearing and storage or removal of top soil.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
VILLAGE: The Village of Posen, Cook County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Posen.
VILLAGE PLAN COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION: The Plan Commission of the Village
of Posen.
11-15-2: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this Chapter to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities in the Village. Measures taken to control
erosion and sedimentation should be adequate to assure that sediment is not
transported from the site by a storm event of ten (10) year frequency or less.
The following principles shall apply to all development activities within the
Village and to the preparation of the submissions required under Section
11-15-3 of this Chapter.
   (A)   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the site
so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes where
high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and
natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses should be left undisturbed
wherever possible.
   (C)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   (D)   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps or
filters should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from run-off
waters from land undergoing development.
   (E)   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should be
based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion and on evaluation of the risks, costs and
benefits involved.
   (F)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
   (G)   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased run-off caused
by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant
velocities of discharges will not create additional erosion.
   (H)   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development.
11-15-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   (A)   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no
person shall commence or perform any grading, stripping, excavating or filling
of land without having first obtained a site development permit from the
Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
   (B)   Exceptions: A permit shall not be required for any of the following:
      1.   Development of a site of less than five (5) acres for residential
use, or of less than two and one-half (21/2) acres for commercial or industrial
use; provided, that the person responsible for any such development shall
implement necessary erosion and sedimentation control measures to satisfy the
principles set forth in Section
11-15-2 of this Chapter;
      2.   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a
single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of five
(5) acres for which a building permit has been issued by the Village;
      3.   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan;
      4.   Removal of a septic system.
   (C)   Application for Permit: Application for a site development permit
shall be made by the owner of the property or the owner's authorized agent to
the Village Board on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application shall
bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site and of
any consulting firm retained by the applicant together with the name of the
applicant's principal contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Each application shall
include certification that any land clearing, construction or development
involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the plans approved
upon issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Submissions: Each application for a site development permit shall be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy location in the
field of the site for which the permit is sought, and including the boundary
line and approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning, and a legend and
scale.
      2.   A development plan of the site showing:
         (a)   Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately one hundred feet (100') of the boundaries, drawn at no greater
than two foot (2') contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation
and drainage pattern of the area.
         (b)   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities, water
bodies, flood plains, drainage facilities, vegetative cover, paved areas, and
other significant natural or manmade features on the site and adjacent land
within approximately one hundred feet (100') of the boundary.
         (c)   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site,
their location, and their limitations for the proposed use.
         (d)   Proposed use of the site, including present development and
planned utilization; areas of excavation, grading and filling; proposed
contours, furnished grades and street profiles; provisions for storm drainage,
including the control of accelerated run-off, with a drainage area map and
computations; kinds and locations of utilities; and, areas and acreages
proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized or
left undisturbed.
      3.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan showing:
         (a)   All erosion and sedimentation control measures necessary to meet
the objectives of this Chapter throughout all phases of construction and
permanently after completion of development of the site.
         (b)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures.
         (c)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
         (d)   Identification of the person(s) or entity which will have legal
responsibility for maintenance of erosion control structures and measures after
development is completed.
      4.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including stripping
and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of
clearing, installation and temporary sediment control measures, installation of
storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas, and establishment of
permanent vegetative cover.
These submissions shall be prepared in accordance with the standards and
requirements contained in "Procedures and Standards for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control in Northeastern Illinois", prepared by the Northeastern
Illinois Erosion and Sedimentation Control Steering Committee and adopted by
the Will-Cook Soil and Water Conservation District, which standards and
requirements are hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by reference.
The Village Board may waive specific requirements for the content of
submissions upon finding that the information submitted is sufficient to show
that the work will comply with the objectives and principles of this Chapter.
   (E)   Bonds: The applicant may be required to file with the Village a
faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit or other improvement
security satisfactory to the Village Board in an amount deemed sufficient by
the Village Board to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance
of improvements and landscaping, for such period as specified by the Village
Board, and engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure or
repair of improvements installed on the site.
   (F)   Review and Approval: Each application for a site development permit
shall be reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The Village Board will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The Village Board may also refer any application to the Will-Cook Soil
and Water Conservation District and/or any other local government or public
agency within whose jurisdiction the site is located for review and comment.
Within sixty (60) days after receiving an application, the Village Board shall,
in writing: (a) approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this Chapter, and issue the permit; (b)
approve the permit application subject to such reasonable conditions as may be
necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this Chapter, and issue the
permit subject to these conditions; or (c) disapprove the permit application,
indicating the deficiencies and the procedure for submitting a revised
application and/or submission.
      2.   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless:
         (a)   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the Village Board where
applicable; or
         (b)   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the Village Board; or
         (c)   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the Village Board for the area in
which the site is situated.
      3.   Failure of the Village Board to act on an original or revised
application within sixty (60) days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed, unless such time is extended by
agreement between the Village Board and the applicant. Pending preparation and
approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed
in accordance with conditions established by the Village Board.
   (G)   Appeals: The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice
of the filing of the application, may appeal the decision of the Village Board
as recited in subsection
11-15-3(F) of this Chapter, to the Village Plan Commission. Upon receipt of an
appeal, which (a) shall be made within sixty days after the date of decision of
the Village Board; and (b) shall be accompanied by a two hundred dollar
($200.00) appeal filing fee, the Plan Commission shall schedule and hold a
public hearing after fifteen (15) days' notice thereof. The Plan Commission
shall submit a decision within thirty (30) days after the hearing. Factors to
be considered for review shall include, but need not be limited to, the effects
of the proposed development activities on the surface water flow to tributary
and downstream lands, any comprehensive watershed management plans, or the use
of any retention facilities; possible saturation of fill and unsupported cuts
by water, both natural and domestic; run-off surface waters that produce
erosion and silting of drainageways; nature and type of soil or rock which,
when disturbed by the proposed development activities may create earth movement
and produce slopes that cannot be landscaped; and, excessive and unnecessary
scarring of the natural landscape, through grading or removal of vegetation.
The decision of the Plan Commission shall affirm or reverse the decision of the
Village Board.
   (H)   Retention of Plans: Plans, specifications and reports for all site
developments shall be retained in original form or on microfilm by the Village
Board.
11-15-4: OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Applicability: All grading, stripping, excavating and filling which is
subject to the permit requirements of this Chapter, and any grading, stripping,
excavating and filling which is exempted from the permit requirements of
paragraph
11-15-3(B)1 of this Chapter, shall be subject to the applicable standards and
requirements set forth in this Section.
   (B)   Responsibility: The permittee shall not be relieved of responsibility
for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed by law, and the Village or
its officers or agents will not be liable for such damage by:
      1.   The issuance of a permit under this Chapter;
      2.   Compliance with the provisions of that permit or with conditions
attached to it by the Village Board;
      3.   Failure of the Village officials to observe or recognize hazardous
or unsightly conditions;
      4.   Failure of the Village officials to recommend denial of or to deny a
permit; or
      5.   Exemptions from the permit requirements of this Chapter.
   (C)   Handbook Adopted by Reference: The standards and specifications
contained in "Procedures and Standards for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control in Illinois", cited in subsection
11-15-3(D), are hereby incorporated into this Section
11-15-4 and made a part hereof by reference for the purpose of delineating
procedures and methods of operation under site development and erosion and
sedimentation control plans approved under Section
11-15-3. In the event of conflict between provisions of said manual and of this
Chapter, this Chapter shall govern.
   (D)   Inspection: The Village Building Inspector will make inspections as
hereinafter required on behalf of the Village Board and shall either approve
that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the
work fails to comply with the site development or erosion and sedimentation
control plan as approved. Plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling
work bearing the stamp of approval of the Village Board shall be maintained at
the site during progress of the work. In order to obtain inspections, the
permittee shall notify the Village Building Inspector at least two (2) working
days before the completion of:
      1.   Stripping and clearing;
      2.   Rough grading;
      3.   Final grading; and/or
      4.   Final landscaping.
If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in phases or
areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the completion
of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an inspection is not
made and notification of the results given within five (5) working days after
notice is received by the Village Building Inspector from the permittee, the
permittee may continue work at his own risk, without presuming acceptance by
the Village. Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in
writing at the site.
   (E)   Special Precautions:
      1.   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the Village
Board determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that further
work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any property, public
way, watercourse or drainage structure, the Village Board may require, as a
condition of allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable special
precautions be taken as is considered advisable to avoid the likelihood of such
peril. "Special precautions" may include, but shall not be limited to, a more
level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, berms,
terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of plant materials for erosion
control, and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or engineering
geologist which may be made requirements for further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the Village Board may
specify the time of starting grading and time of completion or may require that
the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to insure completion of
protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal rains.
   (F)   Amendment of Plans: Major amendments of the site development or
erosion and sedimentation control plans shall be submitted to the Village Board
and shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the
original plans. Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the
Village Board by written authorization to the permittee.
   (G)   Expiration of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire and
become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days, or is not completed by a date
which shall be specified in the permit; except that the Village Board may, if
the permittee presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have
prevented work being commenced or completed within the specified time limits,
grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is made before the
expiration date of the permit.
11-15-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Exceptions: The Posen Plan Commission may, in accordance with the
following procedures, authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and
regulations set forth in this Chapter:
      1.   Application for any exception shall be made by a verified petition
of the applicant for a site development permit, stating fully the grounds of
the petition and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Such petition shall be
filed with the site development permit application. In order for the petition
to be granted, it shall be necessary that the Plan Commission find all of the
following facts with respect to the land referred to in the petition:
         (a)   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
requirements of this Chapter;
         (b)   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         (c)   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subject property.
      2.   Each application for an exception shall be referred to the Village
Board for review. The Village Board shall transmit its recommendations to the
Plan Commission which shall review such recommendations prior to granting or
denying the exception.
      3.   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on each application
for exception within thirty (30) days after receiving application, in the
manner provided with respect to appeals. After public hearing, the Plan
Commission may approve the site development permit application with the
exceptions and conditions it deems necessary or it may disapprove such site
development permit application and exception application or it may take such
other action as appropriate.
   (B)   Stop-Work Order; Revocation of Permit: In the event any person holding
a site development permit pursuant to this Chapter violates the terms of the
permit, or carries on site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood of the development site or so as to be injurious to
property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Village Board may suspend or
revoke the site development permit.
      1.   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop-work order issued
by the Village Board and delivered to the permittee or his agent or to the
person performing the work. The stop-work order shall be effective immediately,
shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed. A stop-work order shall remain in effect until the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission at which the conditions
of paragraph 2 herein can be met.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the Plan Commission. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee, either personally or by registered mail, and
shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language;
         (b)   The time when and place where such hearing will be held.
Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five (5) days prior to
the date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on his
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Plan Commission shall determine
whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
11-15-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading,
excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any terms of this Chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is committed, continued or
permitted shall constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, partnership or corporation shall be punished by a fine
of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. In addition
to any other penalty authorized by this Section, any person, partnership or
corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be required to restore the site to the condition existing prior to commission
of the violation, or to pay the expense of such restoration. (Ord. 82-11, 6-8-
82)
CHAPTER 16
NUISANCES AND VACANT LOTS
SECTION:
11-16-1: Definition; Prohibition
11-16-2: Nonsummary Abatement; Notice
11-16-3: Nonsummary Abatement
11-16-4: Summary Abatement
11-16-5: Cost of Abatement; Lien
11-16-6: Penalty
11-16-1: DEFINITION; PROHIBITION:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
individual, firm, association or corporation within the territorial limits of
the Village are hereby declared to be unlawful and prohibited:
   (A)   Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the common law of
the State of Illinois, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the Village. In addition, the officials of the Municipality shall
be authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined
within this Chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or
unlawful use by a person of property, real or personal, or from his own
improper, indecent or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or
injury to a right of another, or of the public, and produces such material
annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort or hurt that the law will presume an
actionable nuisance. Nuisances may be abated which are public or which are both
public and private in nature. To include misuse of property by boundaries
described in Section
11-16-1(XX).
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
his ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   (C)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   (D)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   (E)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying places.
   (F)   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals, or of the public.
   (G)   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same on,
or affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles
or on hydrants, other public or private property, or on rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without permission of the proper authorities.
   (H)   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property
or right of way, highway, park, street or parkway anywhere in the Village, any
trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or parts thereof,
or miscellaneous waste. To prohibit the stacking of building materials, lumber,
fire wood, etc., not to exceed four feet (4') in height and an area larger than
fifteen feet by fifteen feet (15' x 15').
   (I)   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building, any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle
not in an operable condition, where such inoperable motor vehicle is an actual
danger or detriment to life, safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the
property of surrounding land owners; provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply to a properly licensed junk yard or other permitted outdoor
storage use which is in full compliance with all of the ordinances of the
Village governing the same.
   (J)   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation or
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of repair,
defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of
contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   (K)   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats.
   (L)   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity.
   (M)   All diseased animals running at large.
   (N)   To obstruct any gutter or watercourse so as to cause water to stagnate
therein, or to permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any premises.
   (O)   To cause, permit or suffer any garbage or offensive substance of any
kind to be collected, deposited or remain in any place in the Village other
than as prescribed in the garbage, refuse and debris regulations contained in
this Code.
   (P)   Dust prevention: Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the
wind from such sources as storage areas, yards, roads and the like, shall be
kept to a minimum by landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing, cutting of weeds or
other appropriate means.
   (Q)   All infestations of flies, fleas, roaches, lice, ticks, rats, mice,
fly maggots, mosquito larvae, rodents, insects, vermin and pest birds.
   (R)   To permit the growth upon any premises of any noxious plants.
   (S)   To construct or maintain any building or structure which is in an
unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition, or to maintain or permit any
building or part thereof to be or remain in an unsanitary condition by reason
of the basement or cellar being damp or wet or the floor of such basement or
cellar being covered with stagnant water, or by reason of the presence of sewer
gas, or which by reason of any other unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition
endangers the health or safety of any person.
   (T)   The use of "barbed wire" for fencing or screening of any type in a
residentially zoned district.
   (U)   Barbecuing or cooking of any type in indoor bathtub.
   (V)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain
outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any occupied or
abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or its control, in a
place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door or lid, snap lock or
other locking device which has not been removed from said icebox, refrigerator
or container.
   (W)   It shall constitute a nuisance to allow any building foundation or
excavation to remain open and unclosed for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days. Such an excavation or foundation may be filled in by order of the Board
of Trustees after said thirty (30) day period.
   (X)   It shall constitute a public nuisance if any building used for
residential purposes does not have a clean, potable and adequate supply of
running water.
   (XX)   No building temporary or stationary, no gardens, no storage of
materials allowed through the provisions of this chapter shall be erected,
planted, or stored less than twenty five feet (25') from the street line in the
front portion of the property. The rear portion of property shall be having a
depth of not less than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided,
that such rear portion of the lot shall not be less than twenty five feet
(25'). The side portion of the lot on each side of any building, planting, or
storage along an interior portion of the lot line there shall be an open space
having a width of ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot but not less than
eight feet (8'). (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
   (XXX)   It shall constitute a public nuisance to cause, create or allow, on
or around the exterior of any real property, building or residence, the
appearance of any personal property, laundry, object, device, decoration,
design, fence, structure, clothesline, landscaping or vegetation, which is
unsightly by reason of its condition or its inappropriate location. (Ord. 2010-
07, 9-14-2010)
   (XXXX)   It shall constitute a public nuisance for any person to place upon
any public roadway any basketball hoop, whether portable or permanent, or near
or adjacent thereto, in such a manner as would cause or allow a person to be in
the roadway while utilizing such basketball hoop, or other device, or which
would allow for the interference with vehicle parking, the traffic flow, street
sweeping or maintenance, or the plowing of snow upon any such street, alley,
road or highway. (Ord. 2016-10, 10-11-2016)
   (XXXXX)   It shall constitute a public nuisance to allow or permit horse
droppings on any paved surface within the Village, including streets,
sidewalks, public ways, or parking lots. All horses must be equipped with
manure bags, of sufficient capacity to hold manure droppings for one day, which
must be emptied at the location at which the horse is stabled, and in no case
within the Village. In the event that the pavement becomes soiled by manure or
urine, the operator shall immediately remove the deposits and wash the pavement
with a portable water supply. (Ord. 2018-11, 7-24-2018)
   (Y)   Grass, weeds and bushes:
      1.   Duty Of The Property Owners To Cut Grass And Weeds: It is the duty
of each owner of real property located within the Village not to permit grass
and/or weeds, whether growing or not, to stand on his property at a height
greater than eight inches (8") from the ground. Any real estate containing
grass or weeds having attained a height of eight inches (8") or more is hereby
declared a nuisance. Each property owner shall take such action as is lawful
and as often as is necessary to cut grass and weeds and remove them, such that
they will not exceed the maximum permitted height.
         (a)   Duty Of The Property Owners To Cut And Trim Bushes: It is the
responsibility of each owner of property located within the Village to keep the
bushes neatly trimmed and uniform on the property lines. Bushes are not to
exceed the height of forty eight inches (48") in the front of the property and
seventy two inches (72") in the rear of the property and must be kept trimmed
away from sidewalks and alleyways. (Ord. 2018-15, 7-24-2018)
      2.   Notice To Owner To Cut Grass And Weeds: In the event that a property
owner permits grass and/or weeds on his property to exceed the maximum height,
the Village Code Enforcement Officer shall serve written notice upon him to
comply with the provisions of this subsection (Y) within five (5) days from the
date of such notice.
      3.   Action By Village Upon Failure Of Owners To Cut Grass And/Or Weeds:
If a property owner fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (Y)1 of
this section, and the Village Code Enforcement Officer has given the notice
provided for in subsection (Y)2 of this section, at the expiration of the five
(5) day period set forth in such notice the Village may enter upon the property
and cut the grass and/or weeds. The Village Clerk shall keep accurate records
of the cost incurred by the Village in so doing, whether such cost arises out
of a contract entered into by the Village with others to cut the grass and/or
weeds or whether the cost arises out of the assignment of Village employees to
cut the grass and/or weeds. As soon as the grass and/or weeds are cut by the
Village and the cost thereof is determined, the Village Clerk shall send a
written demand to the property owner to reimburse the Village for such cost.
         (a)   Such cost for the Village to cover this subsection (Y)3 shall be
one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per square foot of the lot frontage.
      4.   Lien Upon Real Property: The cost to the Village of cutting grass or
weeds on the property of an owner who has failed to comply with subsection (Y)1
of this section, is a lien in favor of the Village against such property. If,
after the demand for payment provided for in subsection (Y)3 of this section
has been sent by the Village, the property owner does not pay to the Village
the amount demanded, the Village Clerk shall cause the notice of such lien to
be recorded in the Office of the Cook County Recorder (or, if the property is
subject to the torrens registration system, then in the Office of the Cook
County Registrar of Titles) not later than sixty (60) days after such cost is
incurred. The notice shall contain a sworn statement setting out: a) a
description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof; b) the
amount of money representing the cost and expenses incurred or payable; and c)
the date or dates when such cost and expenses were incurred by the Village.
      5.   Release Of Lien Upon Payment: Upon payment to the Village of the
amount demanded in the notice provided for in subsection (Y)3 of this section,
if the Village has recorded or registered a notice of lien as provided in
subsection (Y)4 of this section, the Village Clerk shall execute and deliver to
the property owner a release of such lien, which release may be recorded or
registered by the property owner. (Ord. 2003-11, 6-24-2003)
   (Z)   Inoperable motor vehicles:
      1.   The Village does hereby declare all inoperable motor vehicles,
whether on public or private property and in view of the general public, to be
a nuisance and fines may be levied for the failure of any person to obey a
notice received from the Village which states that such person is to dispose of
any inoperable motor vehicles under his control. However, nothing in this
section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when
not in use, to historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a
motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles.
      2.   As used in this section, "inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels
or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable motor vehicle"
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service
or repair operations. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
11-16-2: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT; NOTICE:
Except where otherwise provided by the ordinance of the Village, any officer of
the Village possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served a notice,
in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or upon which
any nuisance, requiring them or either or both of them to abate the same within
a specified reasonable time. It shall not be necessary in any case for the
notice to specify the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated unless he
shall deem it advisable so to do. Such notice may be served or given by any
officer who is so directed. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
11-16-3: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance within the
specified reasonable time, the Corporate Authorities may proceed to abate the
nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without limiting the
generality thereof, the following:
   (A)   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by section
11-16-6 of this chapter by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
   (B)   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of a
lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
11-16-4: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the Village possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to personal or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of the like normally present
in the community such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the Municipal officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance requires continuing acts by the Corporate Authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatements, it
shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial
process as soon as reasonably possible. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
11-16-5: COST OF ABATEMENT; LIEN:
In either case provided by the two (2) previous sections, the expense of such
abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created, continued or
suffered such nuisance to exist. The Village may file a lien for the cost
against any real estate whereupon the nuisance existed. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
11-16-6: PENALTY:
Any individual, firm or association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is
allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 88-24, 9-13-1988)
CHAPTER 17
CANNABIS ORGANIZATIONS
SECTION:
11-17-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-17-2: Generally
11-17-3: Procedure
11-17-4: Cannabis Organization Components
11-17-5: Cannabis Industrial Organizations
11-17-6: Cannabis Dispensing Organizations
11-17-7: Additional Requirements
11-17-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide regulations regarding
the operation of cannabis organizations within the corporate limits of the
Village of Posen. Such organizations shall comply with all regulations provided
in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, as may be applicable, as may be amended from time to
time (the "Acts"), regulations enacted pursuant to authority granted through
the Acts, and the regulations provided herein. In the event that the Acts are
amended, the more restrictive of the state or Village regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)
11-17-2: GENERALLY:
   (A)   All cannabis organizations are prohibited , and no person shall
locate, operate, own, suffer, or allow to be operated a cannabis organization
within the following zoning districts:
   "A" Residential Zoning District
   "B" Residential Zoning District
   "C" Residential Zoning District
   "D" Residential Zoning District
   "E" Business Zoning District
   (B)   Cannabis dispensing organizations and adult-use cannabis craft grower
organizations shall be permitted as a special use in the "F" Business Zoning
District, provided the facilities otherwise comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Cannabis organizations shall be permitted as a special use in the "G"
Industrial Zoning District, provided the facilities otherwise comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No other cannabis organization, of any type, shall be allowed, and no
person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, or allow to be operated a cannabis
organization within any zoning district unless specifically authorized in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The operation of any cannabis organization in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be
abated by all available remedies afforded under the law.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. (Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)
11-17-3: PROCEDURE:
All applications for to locate a cannabis organizations in the village shall be
processed in accordance with the provisions of Title 11, Zoning Regulations,
Chapter 9A, Special Uses, of the Posen Village Code of 1965, as supplemented by
this chapter. No cannabis organization shall be sited, opened or operated
unless specifically authorized under and pursuant to the Acts and this code.
(Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)p
11-17-4: CANNABIS ORGANIZATION COMPONENTS:
In determining compliance with Section
11-9A-2 of this title, the following components of the cannabis organization
shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the
particular property in the context of the existing and intended future use of
other properties in the vicinity:
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, total square
footage, security installations/security plan, and building code compliance.
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand based and available private parking supply,
including any unique demand for handicapped parking.
   (E)   Traffic generation and adjacent roadway capacity.
   (F)   Site design, including access points, internal site circulation and
commercial vehicle loading, unloading and parking.
   (G)   Proposed signage plan.
   (H)   Proximity to a public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home, residential care home, a
public park, or any property lawfully used in a residential manner or any
residential zoning district.
   (I)   Proximity to one (1) or more other cannabis organization(s), and
whether such organizations are of the same type.
   (J)   Service by essential public facilities and services such as streets,
public utilities, drainage structures, police and fire protection, and refuse
disposal.
   (K)   The destruction, loss, or damage of any natural, scenic, or historic
feature of significant importance.
   (L)   Absence of alternative locations available for the use.
   (M)   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section
11-17-5 (Cannabis Industrial Organization) or Section
11-17-6 (Cannabis Dispensing Organization), as applicable.
   (N)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Section
11-9A-2 of this title. (Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)
11-17-5: CANNABIS INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS:
All cannabis industrial organizations shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Excepting adult-use cannabis craft grower organizations, no retail
sale or distribution of cannabis or cannabis infused products shall be
permitted on the premises of a cannabis industrial organization.
   (B)   The on-site consumption of cannabis or a cannabis-infused products
shall be prohibited on the premises of a cannabis industrial organization.
   (C)   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a cannabis industrial organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the organization.
   (D)   Any cannabis transporting organization shall be the sole use of the
tenant space of the building in which it is located.
   (E)   Off-street parking shall be provided such that there is one parking
space for each two employees on a maximum working shift; provided, however, an
adult-use cannabis craft grower shall provide parking spaces equal in number to
fifty percent (50%) of the capacity of the facility in person. (Ord. 2020-06,
3-10-2020)
11-17-6: CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS:
All cannabis dispensing organizations shall comply with the following:
   (A)   A cannabis dispensing organization may not be located in a house,
apartment, condominium or a building devoted in whole or in part to a
residential use.
   (B)   A cannabis dispensing organization may not have delivery or drive-thru
service.
   (C)   Space occupied by a cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
occupied or shared by any other business or tenant, or used for any other
purpose other than a cannabis dispensing organization.
   (D)   The on-site consumption of cannabis or cannabis-infused products shall
be prohibited on the premises of a cannabis dispensing organization.
   (E)   A cannabis dispensing organization may not engage in any activity
authorized to be conducted by or in a cannabis industrial organization.
   (F)   At least ninety percent (90%) of the floor area of any facility
occupied by a cannabis dispensing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the cannabis dispensing organization. For purposes of calculating
the total square footage dedicated to retail sales, that portion of the floor
area dedicated to the distribution of cannabis or cannabis infused products
shall be excluded from this calculation; all floor area dedicated to the sale
of other cannabis products and/or paraphernalia shall be included.
   (G)   Off-street parking shall be provided such that the parking spaces
equal twenty five percent (25%) of the capacity of the facility in persons.
(Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)
11-17-7: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
An applicant shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting, or other improvements, as needed or at the request of the Village, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the cannabis organizations.
Said improvements may be required by the Village in excess of those security
measures required by the Acts. (Ord. 2020-06, 3-10-2020)
TITLE XII
RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
CHAPTER 1
RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
12-1-1: Tax Imposed
12-1-2: Report to be Filed
12-1-3: Payment of Tax
12-1-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this Village at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this Chapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of Section
8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
12-1-2: REPORT TO BE FILED:
Every such person engaged in such business in the Village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by Section Three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
12-1-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (Ord. 1969-7;
8-12-69)
TITLE XIII
TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
13-1-1: Title
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: Tax Imposed
13-1-4: Collection of Tax by Retailers
13-1-5: Filing Returns and Remittances by Retailers
13-1-6: Registration
13-1-7: Obligation of Taxpayers to File Returns and Pay Tax
13-1-8: Resale Numbers
13-1-9: Maintaining Books and Records
13-1-10: Forms
13-1-11: Severability
13-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as the "Village of Posen
Telecommunications Tax Ordinance". The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be
known as the "Village of Posen Telecommunications Tax" and is imposed in
addition to all other taxes imposed by the Village, the State or any other
municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
When any of the following words or terms are used in this Chapter, whether or
not capitalized, they shall have the meaning or construction ascribed to them
in this Section:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address located in
the Village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
BAD DEBT: Any portion of a debt that is related to a sale at retail, for which
gross charges are not otherwise deductible or excludable, that has become
worthless or uncollectible as determined by applicable Federal income tax
standards.
DEPARTMENT or DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE: The Finance Department of the Village.
DIRECTOR or DIRECTOR OF REVENUE: The Posen Village Treasurer.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the Village, and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of such
telecommunications, the cost of materials used, labor, service costs or any
other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount thereof shall
be included only as and when paid. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
   (A)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this Chapter, 2) additional charges added to
a purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the Illinois Public Utilities
Act, 3) the tax imposed by the Illinois Telecommunications Excise Tax Act or 4)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the United States Internal Revenue Code;
   (B)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
Village;
   (C)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. This subsection (C)
applies, but is not limited, to the use of calculators, computers, data
processing equipment, tabulating equipment and accounting equipment and also
applies to the usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
   (D)   Charges for customer equipment, including equipment that is leased or
rented by the customer from any source, provided that such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   (E)   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
Illinois Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs;
   (F)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries, or between the wholly owned subsidiaries, when the tax imposed
under this Chapter previously was paid to a retailer, but only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries,
or between wholly owned subsidiaries, represent an expense allocation between
the corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   (G)   Bad debts; provided, however, that if any portion of a debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion of the debt paid during the reporting period; or
   (H)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunication
devices.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside the State of Illinois.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the State of Illinois.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, any receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court, the Federal
government, state governments, state universities created by statute or any
city, town, county or other political subdivision of this State.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail. See also "Sale at Retail".
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (or any like
designation): Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or
an agent or other representative operating within the State of Illinois under
the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such
place of business, agent or other representative is located in the State of
Illinois permanently or temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is
licensed to do business in Illinois.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services rendered in connection therewith for consideration:
   (A)   To persons other than the Federal government, state governments and
state universities created by statute, and
   (B)   Other than between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries, or between the wholly owned subsidiaries, but only when the tax
previously has been paid to a retailer and the gross charge made by one such
corporation to another such corporation is not greater than the gross charge
paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications are originated or at which telecommunications are received
by a taxpayer. If this location is not a defined location, as in the case of
mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground systems and the
like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's primary use of
the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number, authorization
code or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person that individually or through its agents, employees or
permittees, engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the Village and that incurs a tax liability under this
Chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: (A) In addition to the usual and popular meaning, includes,
but is not limited to, messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange services, cellular mobile
telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging service
or any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiberoptics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities.
   (B)   The definition of "telecommunications" set forth in subsection (A)
above shall not include 1) value-added services in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the
information for purposes other than transmission or 2) purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by it to the ultimate retail consumer
originating or terminating the taxable end-to-end telecommunications.
VILLAGE: The Village of Posen, Illinois. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer; and
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   (B)   To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under subsection (A)2 of this Section, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on the same event,
shall be allowed a credit against the tax authorized by subsection (A)2 to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other State or local
tax in this State.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this Chapter is not imposed on any act or privilege
to the extent that such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution or
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the Village.
   (D)   Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of or integrated into end-to-end
telecommunications service are sales for resale and are not subject to tax
imposed by this Chapter. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   (A)   Authorization to Collect Tax:
      1.   Any retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and
making or effectuating a sale at retail shall collect the tax authorized by
this Chapter from the taxpayer and remit it to the Department as provided by
Section
13-1-5 of this Chapter.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this Chapter and any
tax collected by the retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to
the Village.
      3.   The retailer shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the
tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications when sold for use in the manner prescribed in this Chapter.
      4.   The tax authorized by this Chapter shall constitute a debt of the
purchaser to the retailer providing taxable services until paid and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for taxable
services.
   (B)   Permit to Collect Tax: The Director shall, upon application, authorize
the collection of this tax by any retailer not maintaining a place of business
in this State who, to the satisfaction of the Director, furnishes adequate
security to insure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be
issued, without charge, a permit to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter.
When so authorized, it shall be the duty of the retailer to collect the tax
upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications originated or received in
the Village in the same manner, and subject to the same requirements, as a
retailer maintaining a place of business in this State.
   (C)   Separation of Tax and Charge: The tax authorized by this Chapter
shall, when collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the
gross charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-5: FILING RETURNS AND REMITTANCES BY RETAILERS:
On or before the last day of each calendar month, every retailer maintaining a
place of business in this State and every retailer authorized by the Director
to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter shall file with the Department a
remittance return and remit all applicable tax for the preceding calendar
month. The return shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Director,
containing such information as the Director may reasonably require. (Ord. 93-
20, 8-10-93)
13-1-6: REGISTRATION:
Every retailer maintaining a place of business in this State shall register
with the Department within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
Chapter or the date of becoming such a retailer, whichever is later. (Ord. 93-
20, 8-10-93)
13-1-7: OBLIGATION OF TAXPAYERS TO FILE RETURNS AND PAY TAX:
   (A)   If a retailer fails to collect the tax authorized by this Chapter from
a taxpayer, as required by Section
13-1-4 of this Chapter, then the taxpayer shall pay the tax directly to the
Department.
   (B)   On or before the last day of each calendar month, every taxpayer that
has not paid the tax imposed by this Chapter to a retailer shall file with the
Department a tax return and pay the tax upon the gross charges the taxpayer
paid to the retailer during the preceding calendar month. The return shall be
filed on a form prescribed by the Director, containing such information as the
Director may reasonably require. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-8: RESALE NUMBERS:
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications in the
Village claims to be a reseller of telecommunications, that person shall apply
to the Department for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing
why it is not liable for the tax imposed by this Chapter on any purchases of
telecommunications and shall furnish such additional information as the
Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number of the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   (C)   The Department may cancel the resale number of any person if the
number: 1) was obtained through misrepresentation, 2) is used to originate or
receive telecommunications tax free when such telecommunications are not for
resale or 3) is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
   (D)   The act or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in
the Village shall not be made tax free on the ground of being a sale for resale
unless the person has an active resale number issued by the Department and
furnishes that number to the retailer in connection with certifying to the
retailer that a sale is nontaxable as a sale for resale. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-9: MAINTAINING BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every retailer maintaining a place of business in this State, every retailer
authorized by the Director to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter and every
taxpayer required by Section
13-1-7 of this Chapter to pay the tax directly to the Department shall keep
accurate books and records of its business or activity, including original
source documents and books of entry denoting the transactions that give rise,
or may have given rise, to any tax liability or exemption. All such books and
records shall be kept in the English language and, at all times during business
hours of the day, shall be subject to and available for inspection by the
Department. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
13-1-10: FORMS:
The Director is authorized to adopt or promulgate such forms as may be
appropriate to or pertaining to the administration of this Chapter. (Ord. 93-
20, 8-10-93)
13-1-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this Chapter, or the application of any provision of this
Chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this Chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision of its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Chapter. In
particular, if subsection
13-1-3(A)2 of this Chapter is declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
the tax imposed under subsection
13-1-3(A)1 shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 93-20, 8-10-93)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
13-2-1: Title
13-2-2: Definitions
13-2-3: Tax Imposed
13-2-4: Collection Of Tax
13-2-5: Tax Remittance And Return
13-2-6: Resales
13-2-7: Books And Records
13-2-8: Credits And Refunds
13-2-9: Remedies Not Exclusive
13-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as THE VILLAGE OF POSEN ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
ORDINANCE. The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be known as the Electric
Utility Tax and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the
Village, the State or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
PERSON: Any natural, individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions, any
State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this State, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, place of business, or any employee, agent, or other representative
operating within this State under the authority of the person or its subsidiary
or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located in this State permanently or temporarily, or
whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is licensed or qualified to
do business in this State.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The Village of Posen. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
13-2-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1  and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the Village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.594 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.390 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.351 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.341 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.331 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.312 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.307 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.302 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.297 cents per kilowatt-hour; and
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.292 cents per kilowatt-hour.
   (B)   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the Village, the State or any other political subdivision of the
State.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
of the State.
   (D)   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after August 1, 1999; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity
by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to such
customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the Public
Utilities Act 2 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or after
January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff.
8-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
13-2-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of Section
13-2-6 of this Chapter regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this Chapter shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this State who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   (B)   Any tax required to be collected by this Chapter, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the Village by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   (C)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying date
to the Village upon request. For purposes of this Chapter, any partial payment
of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed
to be for the delivery of electricity. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-5: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   (A)   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the Village. The return and accompanying remittance shall be due
on or before the last day of the month following the month during which the tax
is collected or is required to be collected under Section
13-2-4 of this Chapter.
   (B)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under this Chapter, then the
purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the Village and pay the
tax directly to the Village on or before the last day of the month following
the month during which the electricity is used or consumed. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-
1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-6: RESALES:
   (A)   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the Village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village and
furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and certifies
to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a
sale for resale.
   (B)   If a person who receives electricity in the Village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village for
a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not liable
for the tax imposed by this Chapter on any purchases of electricity and shall
furnish such additional information as the Village may reasonably require.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application the Village shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   (D)   The Village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this Chapter for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was obtained through
misrepresentation, or 2) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   (E)   1. If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this Chapter directly to the Village pursuant to subsection
13-2-5(B) of this Chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses
or consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to Section
13-2-4 of this Chapter and remit the tax pursuant to subsection (A) of this
Section on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this Section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the Village the
total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such other
information that the Village may reasonably require. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999,
eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-7: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
Chapter shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this Chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-8: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this Chapter unless the person
files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the
tax was paid or remitted to the Village. (Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
13-2-9: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 99-15, 7-13-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL MOTOR FUEL TAX
SECTION:
13-3-1: Definitions
13-3-2: Tax Imposed
13-3-3: Collection Of Tax
13-3-4: Registration And Maintenance Of Records
13-3-5: Allocation Of Funds Collected
13-3-6: Failure To Report And Pay Tax
13-3-7: Suspension/Revocation Of Business License
13-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
MOTOR FUEL: All volatile liquids compounded or used for fueling motor vehicles,
including gasoline, gasohol, compressed natural gas, and diesel fuels.
MOTOR RETAINER FUEL: Any person, firm or cooperation engaged in the business of
selling motor fuel at retail, not for resale. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-2004)
13-3-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed and levied upon the retail purchase within the village
of Posen of motor fuel at the rate of two cents ($0.02) per gallon or any
fraction thereof.
   (A)   This tax shall be in addition to any and all other federal, state, and
local taxes.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of such taxes shall
be upon the motor fuel retailer. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a
tax upon the occupation of selling motor fuel.
   (C)   The tax provided herein shall take effect with all sales beginning
January 1, 2005. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-2004)
13-3-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Each motor fuel retailer in the village shall have the duty to collect the
motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the village, along
with the accounting therefor, on return forms provided by the village. The
return and tax payment shall be due on the same filing dates established for
filing with the Illinois department of revenue of the retailers occupation tax
return form St-1. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-2004)
13-3-4: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
Each motor retailer shall maintain complete and accurate books, records, and
accounts showing the gross receipts for the sale of motor fuel and the taxes
collected from the purchaser thereof. These documents shall be available in the
village for examination and for the audit by the village upon reasonable notice
during customary business hours. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-2004)
13-3-5: ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED:
The proceeds received from the tax collection shall be divided with one cent
($0.01) allocated to the rebuilding of the village's streets and roads and one
cent ($0.01) will be allocated toward the general fund. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-
2004)
13-3-6: FAILURE TO REPORT AND PAY TAX:
If any motor fuel retailer fails to timely file any report or if any amount due
shall remain unpaid after the due date there shall be a late payment penalty of
five percent (5%) of the unpaid tax for each month, or any portion thereof,
that full payment is not received. The village may also bring civil action to
collect any unpaid tax or penalty. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-28,
10-25-2022)
13-3-7: SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
If the village clerk as license commissioner, or her designee, after an
administrative hearing finds that any motor fuel retailer has wilfully evaded
the responsibility to collect the tax imposed by this chapter, she may suspend
or remove any village licenses issued to such establishment. The owner,
operator or licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing. Any
license suspension or revocation resulting from such hearing shall not relieve
or discharge the civil liability for nonpayment of the tax due. (Ord. 2004-12,
5-25-2004)
CHAPTER 4
HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE
OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
13-4-1: Tax Imposed
13-4-2: Collection And Enforcement
13-4-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of this State's government, at retail in
this Municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this chapter is in effect;
and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this Municipality in
the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman
as an incident to sale of service. Such "Home Rule Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax" and "Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax" shall not be
applicable to the sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed
off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
non-prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine
testing materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
The imposition of these Home Rule Taxes is in accordance with the provisions of
sections
8-11-1 and
8-11-5, respectively, of the "Illinois Municipal Code 1 ". (Ord. 2015-09, 8-26-
2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 and 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
13-4-2: COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-09, 8-26-
2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
13-5-1: Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed
13-5-2: Tax Collections; Reimbursement
13-5-3: Administration and Enforcement
13-5-1: CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act, at retail in the Village at the rate of two (2%) percent
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
(Ord. 2020-02, 1-14-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-10, 7-13-2021)
13-5-2: TAX COLLECTIONS; REIMBURSEMENT:
Each retailer shall collect and remit to the Illinois Department of Revenue the
tax imposed under this chapter. A retailer may reimburse itself for its tax
liability hereunder by separately stating the tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any
Illinois tax the retailer is required to collect. (Ord. 2020-02, 1-14-2020)
13-5-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT: 
The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power and authority to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The tax imposed, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be
collected, and any tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted
to the Illinois Department of Revenue, shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2020-02, 1-14-2020)
