PRINCETON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. O-25-010, passed 4-21-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
 
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1: PRINCETON CITY CODE
Section
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Princeton. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the PRINCETON CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this city code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following language: “That section      of the city
code of the city of Princeton is hereby amended to read as follows.”. The new
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   B.   If a new section not heretofore existing in this city code is to be
added, the following language may be used: “That the city code of the city of
Princeton is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
               , which section reads as follows.”. The new section shall then
be set out in full as desired.
(1989 Code § 1-8)
   C.   All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the city code.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
   B.   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this city
code shall make every effort to maintain it in an up to date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the city clerk. Such code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the clerk when
directed so to do by order of the city.
(1989 Code § 1-12)
CHAPTER 2: SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
city code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of
the city’s indebtedness; any contract or obligation assumed by the city; or the
issuance of warrants.
      2.   Any ordinance not included in this code fixing salaries of officers
or employees of the city, or any ordinance consistent with this code that fixes
fees.
      3.   Any appropriation ordinance.
      4.   Any right or franchise granted by the city council to any person.
      5.   Any public utility ordinance relating to railroads or railroad
crossings with streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct,
duties, service or rates of public utilities, to the extent that it is
consistent with this code.
      6.   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street, public way
or other public place in the city, or acquiring or vacating any easement in the
city.
      7.   Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the city.
      8.   Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor, or levying any other taxes that are not superseded by this code.
      9.   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
city.
      10.   Any ordinance annexing property to the city, describing the city
boundary or setting out the location or boundary of any city park.
      11.   Any ordinance relating to specific elections.
      12.   Any ordinance relating to the transfer or acceptance of property.
      13.   Any temporary ordinance.
      14.   Any special ordinance.
   B.   All such ordinances, as now or hereafter amended, are recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
in this code.
(1989 Code § 1-10)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed
as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, or as waiving any right of
the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(1989 Code § 1-11)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this city
code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
Section
1-3-1: Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word “may” is permissive; the word “shall” is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words “of the city of Princeton”.
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   K.   Ordinance: The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this city code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(1989 Code § 1-4)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Princeton, in the county of Bureau and the state of Illinois.
CODE: This city code.
COUNTY: The county of Bureau in the state of Illinois.
FISCAL YEAR: The period beginning May 1 of each year and ending April 30 of the
next succeeding year.
ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES (ILCS): The Illinois Compiled Statutes, the latest
publication thereof.
MUNICIPAL YEAR: The period beginning May 1 of each year and ending April 30 of
the next succeeding year.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, joint stock association or
the state or any subdivision thereof, and includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee or personal representative thereof.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
(1989 Code §§ 1-2, 1-4)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Non-Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first
offense, and not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a second or subsequent offense. No
imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6)
months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to
be a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection Al of this section, the circuit court may impose a period of
“conditional discharge”, as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or “court supervision”, as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The city attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the city
with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the city
attorney under this subsection A4 shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
code or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws
of the state is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for
a period of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not
to exceed six (6) months, and the matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of
criminal procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to establish
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This subsection shall not apply to city code
provisions adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-1, 5/11-5-
2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/11-40-2a, 5/
11-40-3, 5/11-80-9 and 5/11-80-16.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense.
(2017 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this city code where a duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this city code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(2017 Code)
1-4-3: NON-LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intent of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
(2017 Code)
ARTICLE 4A: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM
Section
1-4A-1: Department Created; Purpose
1-4A-2: State Regulations Adopted
1-4A-3: Administrative Hearings Supervisor
1-4A-4: Administrative Hearing Officers
1-4A-5: Charging Document Procedure
1-4A-6: Hearings
1-4A-7: Representation At Hearings
1-4A-8: Defaults
1-4A-9: Payment Of Fines
1-4A-10: Enforcement Of Orders
1-4A-11: Prepayment In Lieu Of Appearance
1-4A-12: Procedures Not Exclusive
1-4A-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is created a separate and independent department of the city to be known
as the code hearing department. The code hearing department shall have as its
purpose to provide for the equitable and efficient enforcement of the city
code, through an administrative adjudication proceeding before an
administrative hearing officer.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   The city of Princeton hereby adopts in its entirety division 2.2 of
article 1 of the Illinois municipal code, being 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq. The
code hearing department shall have the power and authority under this
subsection A and division 2.2 of article 1 of the Illinois municipal code to
enforce any municipal ordinance by an administrative adjudication proceeding,
except for:
      1.   Building code violations that must be adjudicated pursuant to
division 31.1 of article 11 of the Illinois municipal code and section
1-4A-2B of this article;
      2.   Any offense under the Illinois vehicle code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles; or
      3.   Any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code.
   B.   The city of Princeton hereby adopts in its entirety division 31.1 of
article 11 of the Illinois municipal code, being 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et seq..
The code hearing department shall have the power and authority under this
subsection B and division 31.1 of the article 11 of the Illinois municipal code
to enforce any municipal ordinance, law, housing or building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures in a municipality or any municipal ordinance that requires, after
notice, the cutting of weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of
inoperable motor vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances from private property.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS SUPERVISOR:
   A.   The code hearing department shall be directed by an administrative
hearings supervisor, who shall be appointed by the city manager, or his or her
designee. The administrative hearings supervisor’s function is to manage and
oversee the prosecution and/or correction of code violations subject to the
jurisdiction of the code hearing department in the manner provided in this
article. The administrative hearings supervisor’s duties shall include:
      1.   Reviewing the qualifications of potential administrative hearing
officers and making recommendations to the mayor regarding appointments;
      2.   Reviewing and distributing notices and charging documents as may be
required under this chapter;
      3.   Establishing such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
effective operation of the code hearing department;
      4.   Carrying out such other duties as may be reasonably necessary for
the proper and efficient administration of this article.
   B.   The administrative hearings supervisor may also appoint other persons
to serve in the code hearing department.
   C.   The administrative hearings supervisor, or his or her designee, shall
also act as the traffic compliance administrator and perform those duties
required by 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3, as amended, in regard to violations for the
standing, parking or condition of motor vehicles.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall have the authority to appoint
administrative hearing officers, with the advice and consent of the city
council, to preside over administrative hearings in the city, including,
without limitation, hearings regarding vehicle impoundments under title 5,
chapter 9 of this code.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this article, the administrative hearing officer shall have successfully
completed a formal training program that includes the following:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the administrative hearing officers shall preside;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations they will
adjudicate;
         c.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
      2.   In addition, the administrative hearing officer must be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years,
and be in good standing with the attorney registration and disciplinary
commission of the supreme court of Illinois.
   C.   Scope Of Authority: The authority of an administrative hearing officer
shall encompass all acts necessary to conduct fair and impartial adjudicatory
hearings, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation.
      2.   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
      3.   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing
officer’s own motion, issuing subpoenas for the attendance of relevant
witnesses.
      4.   Asking questions of the parties and witnesses, as necessary to
ensure the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record.
      5.   Preserving the record of the hearing, including all exhibits and
evidence admitted into the record at the hearing.
      6.   Issuing a signed, written finding, decision and order following the
conclusion of an administrative hearing, stating whether a city code violation
exists.
      7.   Upon finding a respondent liable for violating one or more charged
code provisions, imposing penalties, sanctions, costs of the hearing
(including, but not limited to, the administrative hearing officer’s fee), or
other relief consistent with applicable city code provisions.
      8.   Regulating the course of the hearing in accordance with this
article, the rules adopted by the administrative hearings supervisor for the
conduct of administrative hearings, and other applicable law.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-5: CHARGING DOCUMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   All matters to be adjudicated by the administrative hearing officer
shall be commenced against the party alleged to have violated one or more code
provisions by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document in
accordance with the requirements of this section. The charging document shall
be issued by a city officer or employee authorized to exercise code enforcement
authority and served as provided for in subsection D of this section.
   B.   Any charging document issued pursuant to this section shall contain, at
a minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name, city department, position and identification number, if
applicable, of the person issuing the charging document.
      2.   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with one
or more code violations (“respondent”).
      3.   The section(s) of the code alleged to have been violated.
      4.   The date, time and place of the alleged violation(s), and, if
applicable, the address of the structure where the violation was observed.
      5.   A description of the activity, conduct or circumstances giving rise
to the allegations set forth in the charging document.
      6.   The complainant’s name if the complainant is not the issuing city
officer or employee, and the names of witnesses to the violation(s).
      7.   The signature of the city officer or employee issuing the charging
document.
   C.   The charging document shall be forwarded to the code hearing department
where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a
hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose on
the form.
   D.   The respondent named in a charging document shall be served with a copy
of the charging document, along with a summons commanding the respondent to
appear at the hearing. Service may be given in any of the following ways:
      1.   By first class mail; or
      2.   By personal service; or
      3.   By any other means permitted by law for service of civil summons; or
      4.   In the case of violations adjudicated pursuant to section
1-4A-2B, if the name of the owner of the structure where the alleged violation
is observed cannot be ascertained or service on the owner cannot be made by one
of the methods listed above, service may be made on the owner by posting a copy
of the charging document and summons on the front door of the structure where
the violation is found, not less than 20 days before the hearing is scheduled.
   E.   The charging document must be a multi-copy violation notice.
1-4A-6: HEARINGS:
   A.   All hearings conducted pursuant to this chapter shall be open to the
public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed administrative hearing
officer who is charged with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity
to be heard.
   B.   All hearings shall be conducted on the date set for hearing. In rare
instances and for good cause shown, a continuance may be granted at the
discretion of the administrative hearing officer. Lack of preparation shall not
be grounds for a continuance.
   C.   Parties to an administrative hearing may be represented by an attorney,
present witnesses and cross examine opposing witnesses. All testimony shall be
given under oath. Parties may request the administrative hearing officer to
issue subpoenas according to the authority granted in this article.
   D.   The formal rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall
not apply to hearings authorized by this article. The hearing officer shall
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of a violation.
   E.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   F.   No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and
detainer or other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against
an occupant of a dwelling or other structure in the city solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at an administrative hearing.
   G.   It shall be a defense to a code violation charged under section
1-4A-2.B of this article if the property owner, his or her attorney or any
other agent or representative proves, to the hearing officer’s satisfaction,
that:
      1.   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or
at the time of the hearing, the violation has been remedied or removed;
      2.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the property owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations;
      3.   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
property owner or his or her agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the
purpose of correcting the code violation.
   H.   The administrative hearings supervisor shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means. Recording by any means by any member of
the public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the administrative
hearings supervisor. The record of all hearings before an administrative
hearing officer shall include a copy of the findings, decision and order of the
administrative hearing officer’s final determination.
   I.   1.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall issue a written determination of whether or not a code violation exists.
The determination shall be designated as findings, decision and order, and
shall include:
         a.   The hearing officer’s findings of fact;
         b.   A decision whether or not a code violation exists; and
         c.   An order stating the sanction imposed, or dismissing the case if
the violation is found not to be proven.
      2.   A copy of the findings, decision and order will be served on the
respondent within five (5) days after it is issued, in the same manner as
provided for service of the summons and charging document under section
1-4A-5D of this article.
   J.   If the administrative hearing officer issues a written determination of
liability, he or she may impose fines, costs of the hearing (including, but not
limited to, any fee charged by the administrative hearing officer), and other
sanctions as provided by subsection
1-4A-4C7 of this article, and as are consistent with the specific code
provision(s) found to have been violated.
   K.   A written determination issued pursuant to this section shall
constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review and is subject
to review under the Illinois administrative review law.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-7: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
   A.   The case for the city may be presented by a city employee or by an
attorney designated by the mayor but not by an employee or other representative
of the code hearing department.
   B.   The case for the respondent may be presented by the respondent or by an
attorney or agent of the respondent. An attorney or agent appearing at an
adjudicatory hearing on behalf of a respondent shall present the administrative
hearing officer with a signed entry of appearance form.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-8: DEFAULTS:
   A.   If, at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or his or her attorney
or agent of record, fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer may
find the respondent in default and proceed with the hearing and accept evidence
relevant to the existence of a code violation. A copy of the default finding,
decision and order shall be served in any manner permitted by this article. The
order shall advise the respondent of the procedure for setting aside the
default judgment.
   B.   A respondent against whom a default judgment has been entered may file
a motion with the code hearing department to set aside the default judgment and
request a new hearing. A motion to set aside a default judgment may be filed at
any time if the respondent alleges lack of subject matter or personal
jurisdiction. In all other cases, the motion must be filed within twenty one
(21) days of entry of the default judgment. A motion to set aside a default
judgment shall set forth the reason(s) the respondent failed to appear on the
original hearing date. The administrative hearing officer shall hear and rule
on the motion. If the administrative hearing officer grants the motion, a
hearing will be held immediately on the alleged code violation(s) set forth in
the charging document unless the respondent requests another hearing date and
presents good cause for continuing the hearing.
   C.   If any default judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the
administrative hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order
extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the
city as a result of the vacated default judgment.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-9: PAYMENT OF FINES:
   A.   All fines and other payments imposed pursuant to this article must be
made within thirty (30) calendar days.
   B.   Any fine or portion of a fine that is not paid in accordance with this
section may be collected by the city by any means authorized by applicable law.
1-4A-10: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, sanction or costs imposed by an administrative hearing
officer’s order that remain unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to
exhaust, judicial review procedures, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be a debt due and owing the city and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After the expiration of the period for which judicial review may be
sought, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the determination
of liability of an administrative hearing officer, other than for code
violations adjudicated pursuant to subsection
1-4A-2B of this article, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a respondent fails to comply with an
administrative hearing officer’s order to correct a code violation, any
expenses incurred by the city to enforce the administrative hearing officer’s
order including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs and costs
related to property demolition or foreclosure shall be a debt due and owing the
city. Prior to any expenses being fixed by an administrative hearing officer
pursuant to this subsection, the respondent shall be provided with notice that
directs the respondent to appear at a hearing before an administrative hearing
officer to determine whether the respondent has failed to comply with the
administrative hearing officer’s order. The notice shall set the place and the
time for the hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date
the notice is served. Notice may be served by any manner set forth in
subsection
1-4A-5D of this article.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from enforcing or
seeking to enforce any order of an administrative hearing officer in any manner
provided by law.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-11: PREPAYMENT IN LIEU OF APPEARANCE:
   A.   Respondents charged under this article with the offenses listed in this
section shall be eligible for prepayment of a fine, in such amount listed below
in lieu of appearing at an adjudicatory hearing. Where applicable, the charging
document shall notify the respondent of the amount that may be prepaid in lieu
of appearing at the adjudicatory hearing.
      1.   Violations relating to building, zoning and property maintenance and
abandoned or inoperable vehicle violations, the prepayment fine is one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Curfew violations, the prepayment fine is seventy five dollars
($75.00).
      3.   Soliciting without a permit violation, the prepayment fine is
seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      4.   Violations relating to open burning, the prepayment fine is seventy
five dollars ($75.00).
      5.   Animal related violations, the prepayment fine is seventy five
dollars ($75.00).
      6.   Violations relating to the operation of motor vehicles, the
prepayment fine is one hundred dollars ($100.00); except, that seat belt
violations shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      7.   Violations of the city noise ordinance, including animal and vehicle
noises, the prepayment fine is seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      8.   Violations relating to the possession or use of tobacco products,
the prepayment fine is fifty dollars ($50.00).
      9.   Littering violations, the prepayment fine is fifty dollars ($50.00).
      10.   Parking violations regarding persons with disabilities, the
prepayment fine is the statutorily required minimum fine as established, and as
may be amended from time to time, by the Illinois general assembly.
      11.   Snow route parking violations, the prepayment fine is twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
      12.   For all other parking violations not referenced in this section,
the prepayment fine is twenty dollars ($20.00). If a parking violation
continues for longer than 24 hours, the fine increases to twenty-five dollars
($25.00), and if the violation continues longer than 72 hours, the fine
increases to fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   The prepayment of a fine under this section shall constitute an
admission of guilt by the person charged.
   C.   Persons charged with an offense not listed in this section and non-
first time offenders shall be required to appear at an adjudicatory hearing.
For the purpose of this section, a “first time offender” shall be defined as a
person who has never, at any time, been found guilty of violating any of the
offenses subject to this article.
   D.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) shall not be eligible for the
prepayment option under this section unless agreed to, in writing, by their
parent or legal guardian.
   E.   The chief of police or his or her designee is authorized to establish
the procedures for exercising the prepayment option under this section. Said
procedures shall be recited on the charging document served under this article.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-12: PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption of this article does not preclude the city from using other lawful
methods to enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. O-16-003, 4-18-2016)
CHAPTER 5: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
1-5-1: Managerial Form Of Government
1-5-1: MANAGERIAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The government of the city shall be the managerial form of municipal
government.
(1989 Code § 2-181)
CHAPTER 6: MAYOR
Section
1-6-1: Oath Of Office
1-6-2: Powers And Duties
1-6-1: OATH OF OFFICE:
The mayor, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and
subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support the constitution of the United
States and the constitution of the state of Illinois and ordinances of the city
of Princeton, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
mayor of the city of Princeton, Illinois, to the best of my ability.
which oath or affirmation, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk.
1-6-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The mayor shall have and exercise all the powers and perform all the
duties provided or prescribed by the provisions of this code, and not in
conflict with the provisions of this title, or with the provisions contained in
the law governing the managerial form of municipal government, and shall have
and exercise all the powers and perform all the duties provided or prescribed
by law.
(1989 Code § 2-51; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   The mayor shall devote so much time to the duties of his or her
office as a faithful and efficient discharge thereof may require, or as may be
required by statute. He or she shall see that all provisions of this code are
duly enforced. He or she shall preside over and preserve order and decorum at
all meetings of the city council and shall generally do and perform all acts
and things which are enjoined upon him or her by the laws of the state and the
provisions of this code.
(1989 Code § 2-56)
   B.   Appointments: The mayor shall appoint members to all boards and
commissions of the city, unless otherwise provided by statute or this code. All
appointments made by the Mayor pursuant to this code shall be subject to
approval by the city council.
   C.   Voting: The Mayor shall have the right to vote on all questions coming
before the council, but the mayor shall have no power to veto.
   D.   Inspect Books And Records: The mayor shall at all times have the power
to examine and inspect the books, records and papers of any agent, employee or
officer of the city.
   E.   Interpret Ordinances: The mayor shall settle all disputes in regard to
the interpretation of ordinances. He or she shall give his or her decision
after consultation with the city attorney.
(1989 Code § 2-56)
   F.   Ceremonial Duties: The mayor shall preside over all ceremonial
occasions of the city.
CHAPTER 7: CITY COUNCIL
Section
1-7-1: Composition; Term Of Office
1-7-2: Oath Of Office
1-7-3: Meetings
1-7-4: Rules Of Order
1-7-5: Powers; Duties
1-7-6: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-7-1: COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE:
The city council shall consist of the mayor and four (4) commissioners. At the
first meeting in May, the council shall assign the various commissioners to
their departments, one to each, for a four (4) year term; except, that the
mayor shall be the commissioner of public affairs.
(1989 Code § 2-26)
1-7-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
All council members shall take the oath of office as nearly as may be in the
form prescribed in this title for the mayor.
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
1-6-1A of this title
1-7-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held in the council chamber in the city hall on the first and third Mondays of
each month at six o’clock (6:00) p.m., except when such days shall be legal
holidays, in which case, the council shall meet at the same hour on the next
day following.
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings of the council may be held for
the purpose of completing any unfinished business of a regular meeting at such
time or times as may be determined by the council.
(1989 Code § 2-28; amd. Ord. O-23-009, 7-3-2023)
   C.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any two (2) council members may call a
special meeting of the city council on forty eight (48) hours’ notice; but if
all the members of the council are present at any special meeting, the failure
to give such notice or the failure to have the meeting called in this manner
shall not affect the validity of the meeting. The city clerk shall serve or
have served notices of a special meeting if requested to do so by the mayor or
any council member.
(1989 Code § 2-29)
   D.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside over the meetings of the
council when he or she is present. In the absence of the mayor, council members
may choose a presiding officer.
(1989 Code § 2-30)
   E.   Quorum: Any three (3) members of the council shall constitute a quorum,
and the affirmative vote of three (3) members shall be required for the passage
of any motion, resolution or ordinance, as is required by statute.
(1989 Code § 2-31)
   F.   Voting: Every member of the city council shall vote on all questions in
which he or she is not directly and personally interested which may be brought
before the council for its action in such manner as to require a vote to be
taken thereon.
(1989 Code § 2-33)
   G.   Public Participation Policy:
      1.   At each regular meeting and special meeting of the Princeton city
council, and at the meetings of all city of Princeton standing committees, the
citizens of Princeton and employees of the city of Princeton may express
comments or concerns with regard to city business or issues that affect the
city of Princeton at the appropriate time.
      2.   Those persons wishing to make public comment, when allowed to do so
by the mayor, shall abide by the following public participation rules:
         a.   The speaker shall identify himself or herself by name and may
publicly address the city council when recognized to do so by the mayor or
presiding officer.
         b.   The speaker may have up to three (3) minutes to address the city
council. By request from the speaker, more time may be permitted at the
discretion of the mayor or presiding officer.
         c.   The speaker shall not talk above the voice of the mayor or
presiding officer, nor shall the speaker talk over other people or interrupt
other speakers.
         d.   The speaker shall stop talking when requested to do so by the
mayor or presiding officer.
         e.   The Mayor and City Council shall not be subjected to abusive,
harassing or violent language or behavior by the speaker. Those wishing to make
comment shall do so with respect and civility and they shall not use obscene or
vulgar language, fighting words or defamatory comments. Such comments are
disruptive to an orderly meeting.
         f.   The cumulative elapsed time for a public participation period
shall not exceed twenty (20) minutes. If a large number of those wishing to
make comment are present and the public participation period may not be timely
completed, the mayor or presiding officer may reduce the amount of time each
individual gets to make their comments. In unusual circumstances, the mayor or
presiding officer may extend the maximum elapsed time limit.
         g.   Speakers shall know that neither the mayor nor city council
members are obligated to respond to any questions or comments made by the
speaker during public participation.
         h.   Any speaker failing to comply with the foregoing rules may be
removed from the meeting.
(Ord. O-21-013, 5-3-2021)
1-7-4: RULES OF ORDER:
The following rules shall govern the procedure of the council:
Rule 1: No vote of the city council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a
special meeting unless, at such special meeting, there are present as large a
number of members as were present when such vote was taken.
Rule 2: Any report of a committee of the city council shall be deferred for
final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the council, after the
report is made, upon the request of any member present.
Rule 3: All special committees shall be appointed by the mayor and shall
consist of three (3) members each, unless some other number is specified, and
the first person named shall be the chair.
Rule 4: On the acceptance of a final report from a special committee, the
committee shall be considered discharged without a vote, unless otherwise
ordered.
Rule 5: The order of business shall be as provided on the agenda published for
the meeting. Before any petition, communication or memorial address of the city
council shall be received and read at the table, whether the same shall be
introduced by the chair or a member, a brief statement of the contents of the
petition or memorial shall verbally be made by the introducer.
Rule 6: No member shall speak to another or otherwise interrupt the business or
read in any newspaper while the journals or public papers are being read or
when any member is speaking in debate.
Rule 7: When a member shall be called to order by the chair or another member,
he or she shall sit down, and every question of order shall be decided by the
chair without debate, subject to the appeal of the council. Upon such appeal,
the ayes and nays shall be taken and the chair may call for the sense of the
council on any question of order.
Rule 8: If the member is called to order by a member for words spoken, the
exceptional words shall be immediately taken down in writing, so that the chair
may be better able to judge the matter.
Rule 9: No motion shall be debated until seconded.
Rule 10: When a motion shall be made and seconded, it shall be reduced in
writing, delivered at the table and read before the same shall debated.
Rule 11: When a test question is under debate, the only motion and order shall
be:
   1.   To adjourn;
   2.   The previous question;
   3.   To lay on the table;
   4.   To postpone indefinitely;
   5.   To postpone to a certain day;
   6.   To refer; and
   7.   To amend, and such motions shall have precedence in the order arranged
in this rule, the first three (3) to be decided without debate.
Rule 12: A motion to adjourn the council shall always be in order; except:
   1.   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   2.   While the ayes and nays are being called;
   3.   When the members are voting;
   4.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
   5.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
Rule 13: When a question has been once made and carried in the affirmative or
negative, it shall be in order for any member of the majority to move for the
reconsideration thereof, but no motion for reconsideration shall be in order
unless made at the same or next succeeding meeting on which the vote was taken.
Rule 14: No person, other than a member, shall be permitted to introduce any
business personally before the council, except by permission.
Rule 15: New rules may be made, or all or any of the present rules may be
annulled, changed or suspended, at any regular meeting of the council on the
vote of three (3) members, such vote to be taken by ayes and nays and entered
upon the journal of the proceedings.
Rule 16: “Robert’s Rules Of Order” shall govern the proceedings of the city
council, except when in conflict with this section.
(1989 Code § 2-34)
1-7-5: POWERS; DUTIES:
The powers of the city council shall be purely legislative except as may be
otherwise provided by applicable law. The city council shall approve for
payment all expenses and liabilities of the city.
1-7-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   The mayor shall have no power to veto, but shall have the right to vote
on any question before the council. Every resolution, ordinance or warrant
passed or ordered by the city council shall be signed by the mayor, and all
ordinances and resolutions shall be filed for record before they shall be in
force.
(1989 Code § 2-35)
   B.   No ordinance may be adopted by the city council at the same meeting at
which it is offered for consideration, but each ordinance shall pass to a
second reading at the next regularly scheduled city council meeting after the
meeting at which said ordinance’s consideration was offered; provided, however,
that if a motion to suspend the operation of this rule is adopted by a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of all the members of the city council elected, then said
ordinance may be adopted upon proper motion at said meeting without a second
reading.
(1989 Code § 2-36)
CHAPTER 8: CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
1-8-1: Qualifications Of Officers
1-8-2: Prospective Employees
1-8-3: Travel Expenses Policy
1-8-4: Whistleblower Protection Policy
1-8-5: City Purchasing Manual
1-8-6: Sexual Harassment Policy
1-8-7: City Credit Card User Policy
1-8-1: QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS:
No person shall be eligible to any elected or appointed city office unless he
or she is a qualified elector of the city and has resided therein at least one
year next preceding his or her election or appointment. However, these
requirements shall not apply to city employees. Nor shall these requirements
apply to city attorneys. However, no person shall be eligible to any city
office who is a defaulter to the city.
(1989 Code § 2-156; amd. 2017 Code)
1-8-2: PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Physical Examination: Every prospective employee of the city shall
obtain a physical examination prior to being hired by the city. Each department
head shall be responsible for ensuring that a completed physical examination
form is on file in the human resource manager’s prior to hiring any city
employee. The physical examination form shall request only that information
which is reasonably related to the determination of the individual’s physical
condition. The physical examination form shall be completed and signed by the
licensed physician conducting the physical examination of the prospective
employee. The city shall specify a licensed physician to conduct the physical
examination and shall pay for the cost of the examination.
   B.   Motor Vehicle Record Check: A motor vehicle record check shall be
conducted for each prospective employee who may be required to operate a motor
vehicle in the course of his or her employment with the city. The chief of
police shall cause an inquiry to be directed to the secretary of state
requesting any information pertinent to the prospective applicant’s driving
record. A written copy of any such information shall be forwarded to the human
resource manager.
(1989 Code § 2-157; amd. 2017 Code)
1-8-3: TRAVEL EXPENSES POLICY:
   A.   City Policy: The city’s policy is to establish controls based upon the
official city travel procedures administered by the city manager for city
employees and appointed and elected officials traveling on official city
business.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   City Objective: The city, to advance the training and
professionalism of its personnel, may authorize, if funds are available,
attendance at training sessions and conferences requiring employees to travel.
The city’s objective is to allow travel arrangements that minimize travel
expenditures.
      2.   Reimbursable Expenses: Reimbursable expenses include: per diems for
meals, air fares, lodging, rental cars, city vehicles, private vehicles, and
other ground transportation.
      3.   Other Conditions And Restrictions: Other conditions and restrictions
on travel include: family or other members accompanying the traveler, cash
advances for travel, entertainment, alcoholic beverages, elected officials, and
the city manager.
      4.   All travel requests must be preapproved and submitted to the city
manager in a timely manner. No other submittal form will be accepted.
         a.   Travel approval requests are to be submitted at least two (2)
weeks prior to the date of travel and/or registration deadline.
         b.   Exceptions may be considered with the employee’s department
director’s recommendation and details supporting why the late request should be
considered.
         c.   Reimbursement requests received beyond the sixty (60) day window
of acceptance will not be honored, and employees will be responsible for any
payments and invoices resulting from their business related travel.
         d.   Employees are responsible for any traffic tickets/violations
during their travel.
   C.   Reimbursable Travel Expenses:
      1.   Receipts Reimbursed for Meals:
         a.   The employee will be compensated for food for their time away.
Receipts must be provided to be reimbursed.
         b.   Reimbursement for meal expenses will not be allowed when a
training session or conference has any meals included in the cost of the event.
         c.   Reimbursements for meals will not be allowed when the site of the
travel event is within fifteen (15) miles of the employee’s assigned work
location, unless otherwise specified by a collective bargaining agreement.
      2.   Registration Fees: Registration fees must be preapproved after which
they may be prepaid via a city credit card. Registration is not a reimbursable
expense.
      3.   Air Fares:
         a.   Air fares must be preapproved after which they may be prepaid via
a city credit card or, in some circumstances, with a personal credit card in
order to secure frequent flyer miles or other mileage credits for the employee
traveler’s benefit.
         b.   Any request for a reimbursement of air fares must be submitted
for approval to the city manager or designee with a written explanation and
with receipts attached.
         c.   Air fares shall be limited to the fare of the lowest jet class
reasonably available. Advance purchase rates contain restrictions regarding
length of stay or other limitations. In this instance, a comparison of the
total additional expenses for an extended stay versus the next lowest round
trip fare would be required and approval received prior to reservations being
made.
      4.   Lodging/Accommodations:
         a.   Lodging must be preapproved, after which it may be prepaid.
However, lodging, or a portion of the traveler’s lodging expenses, will most
likely be paid by the traveler and will be reimbursable under the following
conditions:
            (1)   Lodging expenses shall only cover the minimum number of
evenings required by the event;
            (2)   Lodging expenses shall be reasonable in accommodations and
expense; and
            (3)   Lodging expenses must be supported by the original machine
printed receipt furnished by the hotel or motel.
         b.   Extra lodging expenses such as dry cleaning, laundry, room
service surcharges, valet or concierge service, video/movie/gaming, and
equipment rental are not reimbursable expenses.
         c.   The city manager’s approval is required for any exception.
         d.   An employee who is required to remain in one location for an
extended period of time is expected to find lodging at a weekly and/or monthly
rate. When attending a school or training session, which covers more than one
week, an employee may return home on the weekends, but will not be reimbursed
for the expense.
         e.   If an employee’s family member shares lodging, reimbursement
shall be limited to the single room rate for that room.
      5.   Internet Access: Business related internet use by the traveler to
send or respond to city e-mails or to check other city business websites, is
reimbursable when submitted with valid receipts.
      6.   Rental Cars:
         a.   The city favors ground transportation such as airport shuttle
service and taxicabs. Conditions may exist where a rental car may be approved
for use and may be eligible for a full or partial reimbursement. Prior approval
for the use of a rental car is required.
         b.   Paying for the rental car using the traveler’s own personal
credit card is also a requirement. The necessity for a rental car must be
supported with a written explanation, submitted during the travel preapproval
process. The level of reimbursement will be equal to the least expensive ground
transportation from the airport to the site of the conference/meeting/purpose
of the trip, regardless of the actual cost of the rental car.
         c.   Expenses as a consequence of renting a car, such as parking,
fuel, and tolls are not reimbursable expenses beyond the level of reimbursement
equal to the least expensive ground transportation.
         d.   Reimbursement requires the original machine receipt printed by
the car rental agency.
         e.   An insurance rider for collision coverage on the rental vehicle
should be included, and this expense will be reimbursed by the city. Personal
liability coverage should not be included as this coverage is already covered
elsewhere by the city for city business travelers and will, therefore, not be a
reimbursable expense.
      7.   City Vehicles:
         a.   City vehicles may be used to travel in situations where air
travel is uneconomical, for example, short distances generally less than six
hundred (600) miles roundtrip.
         b.   Special approval for longer trips may be granted by the city
manager if there will be more than one employee making the trip. Receipts for
fuel purchased are required for reimbursement.
      8.   Private Vehicles:
         a.   Private vehicles may be used to travel in situations where air
travel is uneconomical, for example, short distances generally less than six
hundred (600) miles roundtrip.
         b.   Reimbursement for the use of a private vehicle while on city
business will be made at the current mileage rate established by the internal
revenue service.
         c.   Mileage should be calculated upon the shortest practical route to
the destination from the employee’s base of operations and return to the same.
Employees may utilize Map Quest or Google Maps to determine the route.
         d.   An exception to the shortest practical route would be if the
employee’s actual point of departure is closer to the final destination. In
such a case, the mileage would be calculated at this lesser distance.
         e.   Travel to and from municipal facilities or locations within the
city to attend training, drills, meetings or other similar activities is not
reimbursable.
         f.   Parking fees and toll charges will be reimbursed when submitted
with valid receipts.
         g.   Primary insurance coverage follows the vehicle, not necessarily
the driver of the vehicle or the city. This means the insurance coverage
provided by the owner of the vehicle is the coverage that will be applied,
should an accident involving a private vehicle occur. It is, therefore,
essential to the city and to the owners of the private vehicles that the proper
levels of personal liability and property coverage are in place for protection
from financial loss. Employees driving private vehicles will be required to
submit evidence of insurance coverage to the city upon request. It is required
that employees on official city business, driving personal automobiles, be
adequately covered by auto insurance, including personal liability and property
coverage.
      9.   Other Ground Transportation:
         a.   Reimbursement for other ground transportation, such as public
transportation and taxis, will be made when supported with valid receipts.
         b.   The need for such transportation must be business related, not
just coincidental to a business trip.
         c.   The traveler is to choose the most reasonable mode of ground
transportation considering factors such as time constraints, convenience,
costs, and safety.
         d.   Travel to and from airports should use the most economical means
available.
   D.   Conditions And Restrictions On Travel:
      1.   The least expensive mode of transportation must be taken when
traveling on city business.
      2.   Any exception to anything stated in this protocol will need the
approval of the city manager or designees. Any expense or action not
specifically covered in these regulations will be judged for appropriateness by
the city manager or designees.
      3.   Family/other members may accompany the traveler when traveling on
official city business. However, no expenses attributable to any family/other
member will be a reimbursable expense. All expenses will be calculated as if
the traveler was traveling alone, using the minimum costs to the city for
lodging and transportation.
      4.   No advancement of cash will be made for travel.
      5.   The city discourages partial reimbursement of expenses due to the
inefficiency of processing reimbursements more than once. Reimbursement for
travel should be organized and submitted at one time. Exceptions for hardship
may be submitted to the city manager or designee for consideration. No partial
reimbursements will be made for less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      6.   Entertainment and alcoholic beverage charges are not reimbursable
expenses.
(Ord. O-16-019, eff. 1-1-2017)
1-8-4: WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The city of Princeton provides whistleblower protections in
two important areas: confidentiality and against retaliation. The
confidentiality of a whistleblower will be maintained to the extent allowable
by law, however, an identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough
investigation, to comply with the law and to provide accused individuals their
legal rights of defense. A whistleblower may also waive confidentiality in
writing. The city of Princeton will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This
includes, but is not limited to, protection from retaliation in the form of an
adverse employment action such as termination, compensation decreases or poor
work assignments and threats of physical harm. Any whistleblowcrs who believe
they are being retaliated against must submit a written report to the auditing
official within sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action.
The right of a whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not
include immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated.
   B.   Definitions:
AUDITING OFFICIAL: Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by whatever
name, in the city of Princeton whose duties may include: receiving, registering
and investigating complaints and information concerning misconduct,
inefficiency and waste within the city of Princeton; investigating the
performance of officers, employees, functions and programs; and, promoting
economy, efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the administration of the
programs and operations of the city of Princeton. If the city of Princeton does
not designate an auditing official, the auditing official defaults to the
state’s attorney of Bureau County, Illinois.
EMPLOYEE: Anyone employed by the city of Princeton, whether in a permanent or
temporary position, including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers.
“Employee “also includes members of appointed boards or commissions, whether
paid or unpaid. “Employee” also includes persons who have been terminated
because of any report or complaint submitted under 50 ILCS I 05/4.1.
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION:
      1.   Any action by an employee of the city of Princeton; an appointed
member of a board, commission or committee; or, an elected official of the city
of Princeton that is undertaken in violation of a federal or state law or local
ordinance; is an abuse of authority; violates the public’s trust or expectation
of their conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public’s health
or safety; or, is a gross waste of public funds. The action need not be within
the scope of the employee’s, elected official’s, board member’s, commission
member’s or committee member’s official duties to be subject to a claim of
“improper governmental action”.
      2.   “Improper governmental action” does not include the city of
Princeton’s personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee
grievances, complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments,
reassignments, reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance
evaluations, reductions in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands
or violations of collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that
the action amounts to retaliation.
RETALIATE, RETALIATION OR RETALIATORY ACTION: Any adverse change in an
employee’s employment status or the terms and conditions of employment that
results from an employee’s protected activity under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
“Retaliatory action” includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff
to perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office
changes; refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of
reprimand or unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in
pay; denial of promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal;
or, other disciplinary action made because of an employee’s protected activity
under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
WHISTLEBLOWER: An employee, as defined in this subsection B of this policy, of
the city of Princeton who:
      1.   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under 50 ILCS
105/4.1;
      2.   Cooperates with an investigation by an auditing official related to
a report of improper governmental action; or
      3.   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
governmental action.
   C.   Duties Of An Auditing Official:
      1.   Each auditing official shall establish written processes and
procedures consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for
investigations for managing complaints filed under 50 ILCS 105/4.1. each
auditing official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper
governmental action in accordance with these processes and procedures, and all
other provisions of 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
      2.   The auditing official must provide each employee a written summary
or a complete copy of 50 ILCS 105/4.1 upon commencement of employment and at
least once each year of employment. At the same time, the employee shall also
receive a copy of the written processes and procedures for reporting improper
governmental actions from the applicable auditing official.
      3.   Auditing officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or
expenses incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
      4.   In instances where an auditing official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the auditing official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee’s, or the employee’s
attorney’s, effort to make the employee whole.
      5.   Auditing officials are responsible for reading the full context of
50 ILCS 105/4.1 and complying with all requirements.
      6.   If no auditing official is designated, the state’s attorney of
Bureau County, Illinois will be the default auditing official.
   D.   Duties Of An Employee:
      1.   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the auditing official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action.
      2.   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of, improper
governmental action, the employee shall make a written report of the activity
to the auditing official. The employee must exercise sound judgment to avoid
baseless allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of
wrongdoing will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
      3.   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity
or for determining fault or corrective measures; a designated auditing official
is charged with these responsibilities.
   E.   Defend Trade Secrets Act Compliance: Immunity from liability for
confidential disclosure of a trade secret to the government or in a court
filing:
      1.   Immunity: An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly
liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a
trade secret that
         a.   Is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local government
official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and (ii) solely for
the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or
         b.   Is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
      2.   Use of Trade Secret Information in Anti-Retaliation Lawsuit: An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual:
         a.   Files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and
         b.   Does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court
order (18 U.S.C. § 1833).
   F.   Employee Acknowledgment: Employees are required to sign a written
acknowledgment that they have received, read and understand this policy, and to
submit that acknowledgment to the auditing official or other designated
official of the city of Princeton.
(Ord. O-21-027, 1-3-2022)
1-8-5: CITY PURCHASING MANUAL:
   A.   Introduction/Statement of Policy:
      1.   The city of Princeton is governed by both state laws and local
ordinances with regards to purchasing policies and procedures. Many of these
laws and ordinances have been enacted to conserve tax dollars and to protect
the public from fraudulent practices. While laws and ordinances can help to
achieve these goals, a higher public purchasing standard must be implemented to
protect the public trust. The purchasing policies and procedures of the city of
Princeton have been developed with this standard as the highest priority.
      2.   The city of Princeton has adopted the provision of Illinois statutes
commonly called the “budget officer act” whereby an annual budget is adopted in
lieu of an appropriation ordinance. The annual budget includes all city
operating units and is made up of line items for each object of expenditure.
When adopted by the mayor and city council members, the budget becomes the
legal authorization to expend resources for providing city services.
Accordingly, all city expenditures must be authorized in the approved budget or
in a subsequent amendment.
      3.   The goal of the city’s purchasing program is to obtain quality goods
and services at the lowest possible price. The purpose of this manual is to
establish guidelines to achieve this goal within the philosophy stated above.
Therefore, the procedures contained in this manual will assist the city manager
and department heads in procuring necessary goods and materials in a manner
that is consistent with the highest standards of public service.
      4.   This purchasing manual provides guidelines and directions for the
procurement of goods and services. When used with good judgment and common
sense, the policies and procedures conveyed within this manual will allow the
city to procure required supplies and services efficiently and economically.
All purchasing by the city will be in accordance with the municipal code, city
policy and Illinois law. City employees are expected to conduct themselves in a
manner which will lead to public confidence in the integrity of the city’s
procurement procedures.
      5.   The city utilizes a decentralized purchasing process. Purchasing
activities (specification preparation, bid reviews, telephone quotation
solicitation and requisition preparation) are the responsibility of each
department and must be conducted within procedures established by this policy.
      6.   The city will make every effort to purchase services, commodities or
materials from vendors located in and around Princeton if these vendors are
competitive in price and quality.
      7.   The city encourages the use of environmentally friendly products.
Priority shall be given to these products provided the products are competitive
in price and quality.
      8   It shall be the policy of the city to participate in a joint
purchasing cooperatives such as the state of Illinois joint purchasing program
to the extent such programs provide an economic advantage to the city.
      9.   This manual is designed to be a fluid document and will be amended
from time to time to conform to changes in legislation, technology and actual
practice. Employees who need assistance with specific purchasing situations not
covered by the purchasing manual should contact the city manager.
   B.   Code Of Ethics:
      1.   All city personnel engaged in purchasing and related activities
shall conduct business matters with the highest level of integrity.
Transactions relating to expenditure of public funds require the highest degree
of public trust to protect the interests of residents and business owners of
the community. City employees are expected to conduct themselves in the
following manner:
         a.   Ensure that public money is spent efficiently and effectively and
in accordance with statutes, regulations and city policies.
         b.   Never accept gifts or favors from current or potential suppliers,
which might compromise the integrity of their purchasing function. (5 ILCS 430/
10 et seq.)
         c.   Specify generic descriptions of goods whenever possible in lieu
of brand names when compiling specifications.
         d.   Never allow purchases for similar or like goods or services to be
split into smaller orders to avoid required approval or in any manner that
would circumvent this policy or applicable law.
         e.   Purchase without favor or prejudice.
         f.   Ensure that potential suppliers are provided with adequate and
identical information upon which to base their proposal or quotation and that
any subsequent information is made available to all bidders in an equitable and
timely manner.
         g.   Establish and maintain procedures to ensure that fair and equal
consideration is given to each proposal or quotation received and selection is
based upon the lowest total cost compliant bid.
         h.   Provide a prompt and courteous response to all inquiries from
potential or existing suppliers.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the city manager or his or her
designee to determine if a violation of this code of ethics has occurred and if
any disciplinary action is necessary.
   C.   Conflict of Interest Policy:
      1.   It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any employee or
elected official to participate directly or indirectly in the purchasing
process when:
         a.   The employee or elected official is an owner of, is
contemporaneously employed by, is an independent contractor by/of, or serves on
a board of directors of a bidder, vendor or contractor involved in the
procurement transaction;
         b.   The employee or elected official, the employee’s or elected
official’s spouse or domestic partner, or any member of the employee’s or
elected official’s immediate family holds a position, including as an
independent contractor, with a bidder, proposer or contractor such as an
officer, director, trustee, partner or the like, or is employed in a capacity
involving personal and substantial participation in the procurement
transaction, or owns or controls an interest in the company;
         c.   The employee or elected official, the employee’s or elected
official’s spouse or domestic partner, or any member of the employee’s or
elected official’s immediate family has a financial interest arising from the
procurement transaction; or
         d.   The employee or elected official, the employee’s or elected
official’s spouse or domestic partner, or any member of the employee’s or
elected official’s immediate family is negotiating or is retained as an
independent contractor, or has an arrangement concerning, prospective
employment with a bidder, vendor or contractor.
      2.   An employee or elected official is obligated to and must disclose
immediately to his or her supervisor and the city manager or his or her
designee if a company providing services to the city or which is making a
quote, proposal, or bid to the city employs, is owned (directly or indirectly)
by, or substantial influence is exerted by a spouse, domestic partner or
immediate family member of the current employee(s) or elected official(s).
      3.   Where any party serving as an independent contractor for the city of
Princeton has any economic interest in another company, contractor or
subcontractor who is proposed or contracted to provide services to the city on
a project in which the party is involved, or in which that party has any role
in recommending selection of subcontractors, the party shall disclose such
interest to the city in writing, based upon the same standards utilized for
city staff and elected officials as outlined above.
      4.   The employee’s or elected official’s immediate family shall be
defined as a spouse, children (including but not limited to foster children,
adopted children, children for which the employee or elected official is a
guardian), parents, brothers, sisters, and any other person living in the same
household as the employee.
      5.   It shall be the responsibility of the city manager or his or her
designee to determine if a violation of this conflict of interest policy has
occurred and if any disciplinary action is warranted for the employee, up to
and including termination. It shall be the responsibility of the mayor and/or
the city council to initiate legally available actions against an elected
official.
   D.   Gifts and Gratuities - City Guidelines for Accepting:
      1.   City personnel should be aware that offers of gratitude from vendors
could be designed to compromise objective judgment in product or service
selection. Accordingly, it is city policy to observe the highest standards of
ethics and to shield the employee, the city and the vendor from any suggestion
or appearance of conflict of interest. (5 ILCS 430/10 et seq.)
      2.   No employee or elected official shall permit any influence by
vendors, which could conflict with the best interest of the city, or prejudice
the city’s reputation. Expenditures of city funds to vendors shall not, by
intent, personally benefit any person employed with the city or serving as an
elected official of the city. Employees and elected officials shall strive to
follow the following guidelines:
         a.   Tangible gifts or gratuities shall not be accepted where their
value suggests something more than merely a social gesture. Such gifts should
be returned with a statement of city policy. Promotional or advertising items
of nominal value such as key chains, pens, coffee mugs, calendars and holiday
candy are acceptable, to the extent permitted by Illinois law. Gifts that are
capable of being shared, such as a box of chocolates, shall be shared within
the office or section where the recipient works.
         b.   Association with vendor representatives at reasonable business
meals (valued at $75 or less per person per day) or business organization
meetings is occasionally necessary provided the employee or elected official
keeps himself or herself free of obligation.
         c.   Personal loans of money or equipment are not to be accepted from
a vendor or an individual associated with a vendor doing business with the
city.
         d.   Solicitation of vendors for merchandise or certificates to serve
as door prizes or favors is normally prohibited. However, the city manager or
his or her designee may approve exceptions and such approval will be in writing
and signed by the city manager.
         e.   Corporate discounts granted to city employees are acceptable only
if they arc offered to all city employees and other corporate clients of the
vendor. If in any doubt about the propriety of accepting a gift, the matter
should be referred to the department head who will, if necessary, discuss the
matter with the city manager or his or her designee.
   E.   Approval of City Purchases:
      1.   No employee shall purchase goods or services on behalf of the city
without first seeking approval as required by this policy. All purchases shall
require advance approval of the appropriate department head, the city manager
or his or her designee in accordance with the guidelines described below:
 
Dollar Limits     Required Approvals
Under $5,000      Department head
$5,001—$25,000  Department head and city manager or his or her designee
$25,001 and above Department head, city manager or his or her designee and city
                  council members
 
      2.   Approval for purchases shall occur before the purchase is made. Any
person responsible for approving purchases at any level may delegate his or her
approval authority to a designee in the event he or she is unavailable to
approve purchases.
      3.   The city manager or his or her designee, is responsible for
determining if an item is budgeted, if adequate funds are available, and if
proper purchasing procedures have been followed. The city manager or his or her
designee shall also be responsible for reviewing and initialing all quotes
prior to the order being placed to ensure accurate authorization. If any city
purchase increases the budgeted total by $10,000 for the current fiscal year,
the contract must be presented to council for approval prior to the order being
placed.
      4.   The city manager or his or her designee is further authorized to
execute and comply with the terms of any settlement agreement or court order
for amounts up to $10,000. Approval of settlement agreements or court orders in
amounts greater than $10,000 shall be sought from the city council.
   F.   Purchase Orders And Payment Options:
      1.   Regular Purchase Orders: With the exception of purchases processed
with a blanket purchase order (see description below), all purchases in excess
of $500 individually or in aggregate shall require the issuance of a regular
purchase order to the vendor before an order for goods or services is filled.
No employee shall have the authority to purchase items on the city’s behalf
without first entering a purchase requisition and obtaining the required
approvals from supervisory staff or the city board where applicable. Employees
shall be responsible for planning for purchases exceeding $500 in advance, and
should allow sufficient time to have a requisition processed and purchase order
issued and faxed, emailed or mailed to the vendor. With the exception of
emergency purchase orders, the director of finance will not issue purchase
order numbers in advance unless a requisition has been processed and has
received the necessary approvals.
      2.   Change Orders To Regular Purchase Order: After a regular purchase
order is issued to the vendor, it may become necessary to change it to include
additional quantities, shipping costs, etc. when this occurs, the employee who
completed the original requisition shall process another requisition for the
change order. The employee shall note the original purchase order number on the
requisition for which the change is being made and explain briefly the need for
the change. After the requisition is received and approved by the director of
finance, it will be added to the original purchase order and a change order
will be issued to the vendor. Please note that change orders to original
contracts of 10% or more require the prior approval of the city manager and the
city board. For more information, please refer to the financial policy on
change orders included in this manual.
      3.   Blanket Purchase Orders:
         a.   Blanket purchase orders are intended to give employees
flexibility when purchasing items for less than $500. Orders exceeding $500
shall be processed using a regular purchase order.
         b.   In instances where a blanket purchase order has been issued to a
vendor, it is not necessary to process a purchase requisition and have a
purchase order issued in advance of obtaining the goods or services. Employees
may obtain items from vendors in the field and enter them on a requisition for
payment after returning to work. All purchases must be entered on the system
within two (2) business days. When entering blanket purchase order items, the
employee shall reference the invoice or packing slip number on the item
description line. The receipt shall then be sent to the employee’s department
head or designee for approval. After the purchase has been approved within the
department, the receipt shall be sent to the accounts payable clerk for
processing.
      4.   Confirming Purchase Orders: Except in the case of emergency purchase
orders, the city will not issue confirming purchase orders to vendors. With the
exception of purchases under $500 for which a blanket purchase order is issued,
each department is responsible for ensuring that a valid purchase order is
issued to the vendor prior to the acquisition of goods or services.
      5.   Prepayments:
         a.   The city will not pay for goods and services until the goods are
received or the service is rendered.
         b.   Exceptions:
            (1)   Deposits on certain jobs when approved by the director of
finance.
            (2)   Memberships and books or periodicals.
            (3)   Payments to local, state and federal government entities.
            (4)   Service and maintenance contracts where necessary.
            (5)   Small orders (under five hundred dollars ($500.00)) where the
department head approves prepayment.
            (6)   Approval by the director of finance or city manager.
      6.   Manual Checks: Manual checks are interim checks issued to vendors as
payments for goods delivered or services performed. The checks are issued
between normal accounts payable cycles when an emergency or other extenuating
circumstance as determined by the director of finance makes it impractical or
unreasonable to process the payment following normal payment methods. As the
name implies, manual checks are labor intensive and time consuming to issue,
therefore, their use as a method of payment shall be restricted to unique or
special circumstances.
   G.   Signing of Contracts:
      1.   All contracts must be executed by the city manager or his or her
designee, except as may be directed by the city council. It must be remembered
that a contract is a legal document and must follow a prescribed procedure for
implementation.
      2.   All contracts, to be valid, must be signed by an authorized
representative of the company to supply the services and an authorized
representative of the city. The city manager or his or her designee, or such
other person as may be authorized by the city council, may enter into a
contract for the city, provided that all applicable procedures (such as formal
bidding, bid waivers and quotations) have been met. A copy of the contract is
to be immediately forwarded to the city manager or his or her designee, after
being executed. The contract should also be stored electronically in city
files.
   H.   General Policy for Soliciting Quotes:
      1.   Employees are responsible for obtaining quotes for purchases in the
instances outlined below. When submitting a purchase requisition prior to
purchase, all quotes shall be attached to the requisition. These requisitions
are to be sent to the city manager or his or her designee for review. The
limits shall include all costs involved with a purchase, including shipping,
installation, etc. Requisitions submitted without the required quotes or a
satisfactory explanation of why quotes were not obtained (e.g. sole source,
emergency, standardized vendor, etc.) will be returned to the originator
without approval.
 
                  Day-to-day purchasing may be done without prior approval; the
                  responsibility still exists for making the most economical
Up to $5,000      purchases. Price checks and surveys must be made from time to
                  time to ensure that the price being paid is the best price
                  available and that the quality is the best that is required.
$5,001—$25,000  Three (3) written quotes. Hard copies shall be obtained and
                  retained in the department’s files for auditing purposes.
                  Must be competitively bid where required in accordance with
                  state law and city ordinances. City council approval is
                  required for all contracts above $25,000. For projects
$25,001 and above requiring competitive bidding under state law, if
                  circumstances do not permit competitive bidding (e.g., sole
                  source provider), city council waiver of competitive bidding
                  is required.
 
      2.   Items purchased more than once during a fiscal year ( e.g. forms,
copier supplies, etc.) do not need quotes every time a purchase is made.
However, competitive quotes for these items shall be sought at least once every
three (3) years to ensure that vendors are competitive. With that information a
vendor list will be developed annually for purchasing assistance to ensure all
departments are gaining from this competitive pricing.
   I.   Joint Purchasing/Cooperative Purchasing:
      1.   State Of Illinois: The state of Illinois purchasing program develops
specifications, conducts bid processes, makes awards, creates contracts and
publishes contracts on the Illinois procurement bulletin. When available
through the state program, city employees may consult with the city manager or
his or her designee to enter into purchases for these items. However, employees
shall be responsible for ensuring that the goods or services are of a quality
sufficient to meet the city’s needs and that pricing is competitive.
      2.   Cooperative Purchasing: Subject to applicable state statutes, the
city may participate in, sponsor, conduct or administer a cooperative
purchasing agreement for the procurement of goods, services, construction or
professional services with one or more public procurement units in accordance
with an agreement entered into between the participants. Purchases made under
cooperative joint purchasing bids or contracts may often exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00). However, these purchases originating from
competitive bids of other governmental units (state or local) which may include
multi-year contracts, joint bids or blanket bids, need not have city council
approval as long as sufficient funds have been budgeted.
      3.   Other Units of Government: Periodic surveying of what other
municipalities are paying can confirm whether the city is receiving goods and/
or services at a fair and reasonable price. If one or more a neighboring
municipalities are contemplating the bidding of a particular item, which is
also to be bid by the city of Princeton, the joining of municipalities may
result in a more competitive (lower) price. The city manager or his or her
designee should be consulted before entering into any purchases for these
items.
   J.   Sole Source Purchases: The following purchases or contracts whose
estimated cost is in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall not
require written specifications or competitive bidding.
      1.   Purchases which may only be made from a single source;
      2.   Purchases for additions to and repairs and maintenance of personal
property owned by the city which may be more efficiently added to, repaired or
maintained by a specific person or entity;
      3.   Purchases of personal property which are compatible with the
existing equipment or systems owned by the city;
      4.   Purchases which can be made at a public auction, close-out sale,
bankruptcy sale or other similar sale at a cost below the market cost in the
community;
      5.   Purchases where an emergency immediately affects the public health,
safety or welfare if authorized by the department head and city manager or his
or her designee. Upon cessation of the emergency, the department head and city
manager or his or her designee shall inform the corporate authorities by a full
written account of the contract(s) entered into or purchases made pursuant to
this subsection;
      6.   Contracts for the services of individuals possessing a high degree
of professional skill;
      7.   Contracts for the printing of bonds, tax warrants and other
evidences of indebtedness;
      8.   Purchases, which because of the unique characteristics of the
personal property or the needs of the city are not susceptible to competitive
bidding;
      9.   Contracts with options to renew for additional periods of time at a
fixed price.
   K.   Emergency Purchases Policy:
      1.   Emergencies are defined as events that could not have been foreseen
where immediate action is necessary to safeguard the public’s health and
safety. In the event of an emergency affecting the public health and safety,
the department head and city manager or his or her designee may authorize a
vendor to perform work necessary to resolve such emergency without formal bid
solicitation.
      2.   If an “emergency” has been declared by the city manager or his or
her designee and/or mayor, the following guidelines will be observed:
         a.   All emergency purchases up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
in estimated cost can be consummated by employees designated to purchase by
their department head.
         b.   Those emergency purchases with an estimate cost of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) to twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for goods and
services require the verbal approval of the city manager or his or her designee
prior to expenditure. Purchases in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) for goods and services require the written approval of the city
manager or his or her designee with immediate notification to the city council.
         c.   Documentation of the written approval from the city manager or
his or her designee can be satisfied by email. This documentation must be
printed and attached to the invoice. All invoices and receipts related to the
emergency must be noted so.
   L.   Request For Qualifications: A request for qualification (RFQ) can be
used as a pre-qualification stage of the procurement process. Only those
proponents who successfully respond to the RFQ and meet the qualification
criteria will be included in subsequent requests for proposals (RFP)
solicitation process. This two stage approach can both streamline the
solicitation process and assist in gathering information about candidates for
future use.
   M.   Request for Professional Services:
      1.   Certain professional service contracts and agreements may be
accomplished through requests for professional services which are considered by
the city to be those which, by their nature, are not adapted to award by
competitive bidding; although should the city have an existing and satisfactory
relationship with a firm, contractually present or not, this provision may be
waived upon city manager or his or her designee approval. This would include
such services as auditing, engineering, planning, legal, appraising,
architectural, medical, psychological, marketing, risk management, bond
issuance and similar type services of individuals possessing a high degree of
professional skill where the ability and reputation of the individual plays an
important role.
      2.   These contracts or agreements may be entered into without formal
bidding with the approval of the city manager or his or her designee for
amounts up to twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The City Council must
specifically approve any contract in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
      3.   Request For Quotation (RFQ): An RFQ is used for sealed bids and best
suited with products and services that are as standardized and commoditized.
Supplier decisions are typically made by the procurement department following a
comparison and analysis of the RFQ responses.
      4.   Request for Proposal (RFP): An RFP is a solicitation sent to
potential supplier with whom a relationship is being considered. RFP’s state
the strategy, objectives, and details that will assist the supplies with the
ability to offer a bid.
   N.   Service Contracts:
      1.   The purposes of these contracts are varied and often require bids or
bid waivers. In certain circumstances, a contract(s) may be entered into
without bids. When bids are waived, a contract is entered into through
negotiation or acceptance of a proposal from the vendor who wishes to supply
the service. In most cases where bids are waived, the same legal requirements
as in a bid situation still apply.
      2.   It must be remembered that a contract is a legal document and must
follow a prescribed procedure for implementation.
      3.   All contracts, to be valid, must be signed by an authorized
representative of the company to supply the services and an authorized
representative of the city. The city manager or his or her designee, or such
other person as may be authorized by the city council, may enter into a
contract for the city, provided that all applicable procedures (such as formal
bidding, bid waivers and quotations) have been met. A copy of the contract is
to be immediately forwarded to the city manager or his or her designee after
being executed. The contract should also be stored electronically in city
files.
      4.   A non-expiring contract may be entered into in the same manner as a
contract with an expiration date provided that a clause is inserted into the
contract allowing the city to terminate the contract within thirty (30) to
ninety (90) days upon proper notification by the city to the vendor.
      5.   All contracts must have their terms, such as dates and fees,
specifically set forth in the contract. Procedures for applying for cost
overruns of the contract must be specifically spelled out. The vendor must
agree to protect, indemnify, hold and save harmless and defend the city of
Princeton against any and all claims, costs, actions and expenses, including,
but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by reason of a lawsuit
or claim for compensation arising in favor of any person, including the
employees or officers or independent contractors or subcontractors of the first
and second parties, on account of personal injuries or death, or damages to
property occurring, growing out of: incident to, or resulting directly or
indirectly from the performance by the vendor hereunder, whether such loss,
damage, injury or liability is contributed to by the negligence of the city of
Princeton whether latent or patent, or from causes whatsoever, except that the
vendor shall have no liability or damages or the costs incident thereto caused
by the sole negligence of the city of Princeton.
      6.   To keep in force, to the satisfaction of the city of Princeton, at
all times during the performance of the work referred to above, commercial
general liability insurance and automobile liability insurance with bodily
injury limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and property
damage insurance and workers compensation coverage with limits of not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). The vendor agrees that at any time upon
the demand of the city of Princeton proof of such insurance coverage will be
submitted to the city manager or his or her designee. There shall be no
additional charge for said insurance to the city of Princeton. The city manager
or his or her designee shall review the required insurance specifications
annually and adjust when necessary.
   O.   Waiver Of Competitive Bidding: In certain circumstances, a department
head may believe that the best interests of the city would be served by a
purchase from one particular vendor despite the amount of the purchase being in
excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). In this instance, a
request for bid waiver must include adequate justification and be forwarded to
the city manager or his or her designee. After review and concurrence, a
request for bid waiver shall be forwarded to the city council for final
consideration.
   P.   Local Vendors: When securing price quotations, department heads shall,
to the extent practicable, solicit quotations from qualified vendors located in
the city of Princeton. Everything else being equal between two or more possible
vendors, and quotes are responsible and responsive, the city shall give
preference to the local vendor. Local vendor preference cannot be used if using
federal funds for the project.
   Q.   Bidding Procedures: Having recognized the need for formal bid letting,
the following process is to be followed:
      1.   The requesting department prepares the specifications for the item
to be let for bid.
      2.   The department head arranges the specifications into proper format
and prepares the other needed documents to complete the bid invitation package.
Required documents of a bid invitation package are:
         a.   Cover letter/invitation to bid.
         b.   Specifications of the item/service to be bid (including maps
drawings and/or any other pertinent documents).
         c.   Proposal form.
         d.   General instructions and information to bidders.
         e.   Bidder’s certification form(s) (i.e., non-collusion, bid rigging
or bid rotation, sexual harassment, tax compliance, etc.).
         f.   Special provisions.
      3.   The city clerk or his or her designee arranges for a bid opening
date. The date must be at least ten (10) calendar days from the published
notification date, but not more than forty five (45) calendar days.
      4.   The city clerk or his or her designee is responsible for placing a
legal notice concerning the bid in a local newspaper of general circulation at
least ten calendar days prior to the bid opening.
      5.   The city clerk or his or her designee sends bid invitations to all
known responsible vendors on the bidder’s list for the particular item as well
as to any other prospective bidder. Bid packets will also be available for pick
up in the city clerk’s office. If a bid package is costly to reproduce, a
nominal charge for the package may be assessed.
      6.   The department head (or designee) and the city clerk or his or her
designee are to be present at the bid opening.
      7.   The department head is to review the bid(s), determine the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder, make a recommendation to the city manager or
his or her designee, and write the council agenda memo for this purpose.
      8.   If the bid falls under the guidelines necessary for credit checks,
the recommended bidder may be subject to those guidelines.
      9.   Bids received by way of facsimile machine and email are unacceptable
and will not be accepted or acknowledged. Acceptable bids should be sealed and
clearly marked as such.
      10.   Bids received after the due date and time are to be returned
unopened to the bidder with a cover letter stating date and time the “Bid” was
actually received.
      11.   Premature Opening Of Bids: In the event of a sealed bid being
opened prior to the determined date and time for such opening, the person shall
submit a written affidavit to the city manager or his or her designee stating
the time of the premature opening, the circumstances causing such premature
opening, and stating as fact that the information contained in the bid
documents has not been disclosed to the public, any potential bidder, or any
city employee. The city clerk or his or her designee will then reseal the bid,
to be opened at the appropriate time.
      12.   Criminal Code of 2012 (as amended from time to time):
         a.   In all areas of a public bid letting, the provisions of 720 ILCS
5/33E et seq. regarding bid rigging, bid rotating and collusive activities
shall be strictly followed.
         b.   Requirements of this act are as follows:
            (1)   A certification form shall be included in all bid invitations
packages. This form shall immediately follow the bid proposal form in the
package. All bidders must properly execute this form as prescribed and attach
it to the bid proposal form in their sealed envelope.
            (2)   The failure of a bidder to submit this form with the bid
shall render the bidder to be nonresponsible.
               (A)   The submission of the certification after the bid opening
will not be acceptable.
               (B)   Additionally, each bidder shall be responsible for signing
a non-collusion certificate.
            (3)   Each bidder may submit written questions to be answered in an
addendum shared with all prospective bidders.
      13.   The special provisions portion of the bid package shall state those
city representatives that may speak to a potential bidder in the period between
the time of the initial bid mailing and the bid opening date and time.
      14.   No more than three city employees may be designated to speak for
the bid. These employees shall be:
         a.   City manager.
         b.   The affected department head.
         c.   City clerk
      15.   Only the criteria stated in the bid invitation package may be used
in the process of determining the successful bidder.
      16.   Change Orders: Subsequent to a bid award, change orders may be
found to be necessary.
         a.   All change orders must be approved by the city manager and or his
or her designee and department head. If the total change order is over ten
percent (10%) of the total project cost, the city council will need to approve
the change.
         b.   Requests for change orders must state that the circumstances said
to necessitate the change were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the
contract was signed, were not within the contemplation of the contract as
signed, or are in the best interest of the city of Princeton.
         c.   Notwithstanding any provision of this policy to the contrary, a
change order must be authorized by the city council if there is an increase
(decrease) in time of completion by thirty (30) days or more, or if otherwise
required pursuant to the applicable contract or agreement.
      17.   Prevailing Wage Act:
         a.   The act requires in all construction contracts entered into for
public works construction projects that the prevailing wages, as issued by the
Illinois department of labor for bureau county, be paid to all laborers,
workers and mechanics performing work under the contract.
         b.   The bid package for such construction contracts shall contain the
most recent listing of the said prevailing wages or a link to the website at
which such wages are provided.
            (1)   A certification form shall be included in all bid invitation
packages. This form shall immediately follow the certification form for 720
ILCS 5/33E. All bidders must properly execute this form as prescribed and
attach it to the bid proposal form in a sealed envelope.
            (2)   The failure of a bidder to submit this form with the bid will
render the bidder to be nonresponsible.
         c.   Also, all contractors conducting work for the city with federal
or state funds shall abide by the requirements set forth in section 135 of the
department of the interior and related agencies appropriation act for fiscal
year 1990 relating to the use of federal monies for lobbying efforts and 720
ILCS 5/33E relating to bid rigging. In each case, the city manager’s office
shall coordinate, with the department involved in the construction, the
incorporation of the appropriate documentation required by the acts.
      18.   Public Contracts - Illinois Municipal Code: Division 42.1 of the
Illinois municipal code, 65 ILCS 5/11-42.1-1 et seq., prohibits Illinois
municipalities from entering into a contract with an individual or entity that
is delinquent in the payment of any tax administered by the Illinois department
of revenue. A certification form shall be included in all bid invitation
packages. This form shall immediately follow the certification form required by
the statute. All bidders must properly execute this form as prescribed and
attach it to the bid proposal form in their sealed envelope.
      19.   Specifications, Preparation and Bid Award:
         a.   In all cases, the requesting department is responsible for the
initial specification preparation for bids. The city manager or his or her
designee will assist the department as needed or requested but it is generally
held that the requesting department has the best knowledge of what is needed.
Specifications may not be developed in a manner intended to specifically
exclude a potential bidder on a technicality or developed in such a manner that
only one bidder is possible. Specifications must be broad enough to invite
competition but yet not be so loose as to invite a potentially low bid on an
item that is not desired or not in the best interests of the city.
         b.   The bid award is to be made to the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder. The determination of the “lowest responsive and responsible
bidder” is a matter of the sound and reasonable discretion of the city based
on, among other items, the credentials, financial information, bonding
capacity, insurance protection, qualifications of the labor and management of
the firm, past experience, ability to meet all specifications and ability to
complete the contract in a timely manner. The responsive and responsible bidder
shall not have any outstanding debts owed to the city of Princeton in order to
qualify for the bid award.
         c.   Upon execution of the agreement, the department will provide a
copy to the city manager.
         d.   Following the award of a bid by the city council, the department
head sends an award letter to the successful bidder. If the bid was for several
items or materials to be purchased over a period of time, the department head
also notifies the successful bidder by letter with a copy to the city manager
so that a purchasing procedure can be established.
   R.   New Vendors: New vendors will be required to provide a W-9 to the
accounts payable department before any payment will be released to the vendor.
   S.   Credit Cards/Charge Accounts: The city may authorize the use of credit
cards to department heads as needed, and may also issue them to certain
designees within the department (supervisors, maintenance staff, etc.). All
employees who are issued a credit card must sign the city of Princeton’s credit
card policy acknowledgment form. The city may also authorize the use of store
charge accounts (e.g., TSC, Sullivan’s, Ace Hardware) to department heads and
certain designees within the department. The same purchasing requirements will
apply as indicated above. At the time the bill is received for the month’s
purchases, each department head will submit receipts for purchases. Abuse of
this system for personal use may lead to discipline up to and potentially
including immediate termination.
   T.   Petty Cash:
      1.   Petty cash funds are established to pay for infrequent purchases
that are under fifty dollar ($50.00) and require immediate payment. Tolls,
parking, filing costs, etc. are traditional expenses that fall into this
category. Department heads must approve the petty cash reimbursement vouchers.
The petty cash funds are available to all departments.
      2.   The city manager or his or her designee will conduct quarterly
audits of the petty cash fund. A petty cash slip must be completed,
countersigned by the department head and accompanied by a receipt.
      3.   These receipts should be reconciled and sent to accounts payable on
a monthly basis for reimbursement.
      4.   No department may establish their own petty cash fund without the
express written consent of the city manager.
   U.   Use of Sales Tax Exemption Number:
      1.   City purchases are not subject to sales tax; therefore, employees
shall make efforts to inform vendors of the city’s tax exempt status and to
ensure that sales tax is not paid for purchases made with petty cash, credit
cards or store charges. Employees shall provide vendors with a sales tax
exemption form upon request.
      2.   Use of the city’s sales tax exemption number is restricted to
purchases made on behalf of the city. State law prohibits use of the city’s
sales tax exemption number for personal reasons. Purchases where sales tax is
charged will be the responsibility of the department head to work with the
vendor on issuing a credit.
   V.   Use of Outside Contractors or Vendors:
      1.   Illinois department of revenue regulations allow contractors to use
the city’s sales tax exemption number to purchase materials used in
construction of public improvements, which will be eventually dedicated to the
city. Use of the exemption number is limited to purchases directly related to
work being done on behalf of the city. Contractors are responsible for any tax
due on purchases determined to be non-exempt and for purchases not made on the
city’s behalf.
      2.   Requests by contractors for the city’s sales tax exemption number
shall be forwarded to the city manager or his or her designee. In order to
obtain the number, the contractor shall be required to complete and submit to
the city a sales tax exemption authorization request, which includes the
supplier’s location and a list of materials to be purchased after the proper
request has been received, the city will provide the contractor with a sales
tax exemption certificate.
   W.   Equal Opportunity: Contractors shall comply with the Illinois human
rights act, 775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as amended, and any rules and regulations
promulgated in accordance therewith, including, but not limited to the equal
employment opportunity clause, Illinois administrative code, title 44, part 750
(Appendix A). Furthermore, the contractor shall comply with the public works
employment discrimination act, 775 ILCS 10/0.01 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. O-20-012, 9-8-2020)
1-8-6: SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY:
   A.   Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment
      1.   Sexual harassment deserves special mention. Sexual harassment can
take several forms and includes any harassing conduct based on gender or sexual
orientation, regardless of whether the conduct is sexual in nature. Sexual
harassment is strictly prohibited by the city of Princeton Any unwelcome
conduct based on gender or sexual orientation is also forbidden by this policy
regardless of whether the individual who engaged in the harassment and the
individual being harassed are of the same or different genders.
      2.   Sexual harassment is defined as any unwelcome sexual advances or
requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
         a.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
         b.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as a basis for employment or decisions affecting an employee; or
         c.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive employment environment.
      3.   Sexual harassment, as defined above, may include, but is not limited
to the following:
         a.   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         b.   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
         c.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         d.   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         e.   Textual/Electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   B.   Responsibility of Employees: Each individual employee has the
responsibility to refrain from prohibited discrimination or harassment in the
workplace. It is important that employees be sensitive to other employees’
feelings. What may seem like innocent behavior or a joke, may not be perceived
the same way by another employee. The most severe and overt forms of sexual
harassment are easier to determine. However, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. Every employee is expected to avoid any behavior or conduct
that could be interpreted as prohibited conduct under this policy. The courts
will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a “reasonable
person”.
   C.   Reporting Discrimination or Harassment:
      1.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself or himself to be the subject of sexual harassment, should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or
his position to the offending employee, unless it is clear in the circumstances
such requests will serve no purpose or are likely to result in further
unwelcome conduct. It is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at
the person making the report.
      2.   An employee who observes sexual harassment or believes herself or
himself to be the subject of sexual harassment, shall immediately report the
conduct to his or her immediate supervisor, department manager, ethics officer,
human resource manager or city manager. This report will remain confidential to
the fullest extent permissible by law. This policy does not require that the
employee report the conduct to any individual who is engaging in the conduct.
If the employee believes that any person to whom such a report should be
directed is involved in or associated in any way with the alleged conduct, then
the report should be directed to another department manager not involved in the
conduct or to the city manager. Employees need not follow the chain of command
to report or discuss offending behavior. When receiving a report of an alleged
violation of this policy, the city will make every effort to maintain the
confidentiality of the report to the fullest extent permissible by law.
      3.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the city is aware of the conduct. If the
employee fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the city
will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      4.   Any supervisor or manager who has knowledge of suspected prohibited
conduct, or to whom a complaint has been made, must promptly report the conduct
to the human resource manager and the city manager. The failure of a supervisor
to report suspected violations of this policy may result in disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
      5.   The city encourages all employees to immediately report concerns
regarding discrimination and/or harassment so that the city can be promptly,
thoroughly and effectively investigate and resolve any issues that may exist.
However, all employees have the right to contact the inspector general, the
Illinois department of human rights (IDHR), or the equal employment opportunity
commission (EEOC). Employees may contact the IDHR at 100 West Randolph Street,
Suite 10-100, Chicago, Illinois 60601 (312-814-6245); employees may contact the
EEOC at 500 West Madison Street, Suite 2000, Chicago, Illinois 60661-2506 (1-
800-669-4000).
   D.   City Investigation and Response:
      1.   All reports, including anonymous reports, describing conduct that is
inconsistent with this policy will be investigated promptly. The city may put
reasonable interim measures in place, such as a leave of absence or a transfer,
while the investigation takes place. Although complete confidentiality in
investigating complaints and imposing any discipline cannot be guaranteed, the
city will attempt to preserve confidentiality to the fullest extent permissible
by law. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges, the difficulties associated with their investigation, and the
questions of credibility involved, the willingness of the employee reporting
the conduct to cooperate is a vital component of an effective and appropriate
inquiry and outcome.
      2.   If an investigation reveals that a violation of this policy or other
inappropriate conduct has occurred, then the city will take corrective action,
including discipline up to and including termination, as is appropriate under
the circumstances, regardless of the job positions of the parties involved. The
city may discipline an employee for any inappropriate conduct discovered in
investigating reports made pursuant to this policy, whether that conduct is a
violation of law or a violation of other city policies or procedures. If the
person who engaged in conduct that violates this policy is not employed by the
city, then the city will take whatever action is reasonable and appropriate
under the circumstances to correct the situation and eliminate such conduct.
   E.   Prohibition on Retaliation for Reporting Sexual Harassment:
      1.   No city official, city agency, city employee or city officer shall
take any retaliatory action against any city employee due to a city employee’s:
         a.   Disclosing or threatening to disclose any violation of this
policy;
         b.   Providing information related to or testifying before any public
body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of this
policy; or
         c.   Assisting or participating in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      2.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any employee that is taken
in retaliation for an employee’s involvement in protected activity pursuant to
this policy.
      3.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      4.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
state officials and employees ethics act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         a.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, agency, or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule,
or regulation;
         b.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
         c.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the state officials and employees ethics act.
      5.   Pursuant to the whistleblower act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      6.   According to the Illinois human rights act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is
a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or
she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois human rights act.
   F.   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment:
      1.   Disciplinary action will be taken against any employee who violates
this policy, which may, but need not necessarily, include the following:
         a.   Verbal or written reprimand;
         b.   Placing the offending employee on a corrective action plan for a
period of time to be identified;
         c.   Delay in pay increases or promotions;
         d.   Suspending the offending employee from work without pay;
         e.   Reassignment of the offending employee;
         f.   Demotion; or
         g.   Immediate termination.
      2.   Further, each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the city shall be separate and distinct from any penalty
imposed by a state ethics commission or from any fines or penalties imposed by
a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   G.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is a report not
made in good faith. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused,
a false or frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result in
disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline, up
to and including discharge.
   H.   Filing Of Complaint: Parameters are included as to the filing of a
complaint with the Illinois department of human rights and/or with the equal
employment opportunities commission within three hundred (300) days of the
alleged incident(s), unless it is a continuing offense.
(Ord. O-17-025, 1-2-2018; Ord. O-18-026, 11-19-2018)
1-8-7: CITY CREDIT CARD USER POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: To allow city departments to purchase goods and services
directly from vendors when those items are needed, but it is not expedient,
practical or desirable to have either a check or cash available when payment is
demanded.
   B.   Policy:
      1.   The use of city issued credit cards are restricted for Princeton
city government to acquire goods and services for the conduct of city business.
      2.   No personal expenditures are allowed by employees with the credit
cards, even if the intent is to re-pay the city at a future point.
      3.   Credit card bills (statements) must be submitted for claim
reimbursement and must include supporting documentation, such as receipts and
invoices, which clearly show what goods and services were purchased using the
credit card.
      4.   A list of city issued credit cards shall be compiled and updated by
the city each year. Said list shall include the city department which
authorized the card, the number of credit cards issued for any particular
account, all authorized users of each card, credit limits and card expiration
dates.
   C.   Department Head Authorization and Responsibility:
      1.   Each department head should determine how many cards are needed for
their department and which employees will be authorized to use them.
      2.   Each department head should establish appropriate credit limits for
each card issued, recognizing that individual cards may vary with the types of
goods and services which are anticipated to be acquired.
      3.   Each department head is responsible for the use of cards by their
department and for ensuring that any charges are authorized city expenditures
and that adequate monies are available within the department’s approved budget.
      4.   Each department head is responsible for reconciling the credit card
statement to itemized receipts and invoices prior to submitting the claim for
payment. All supporting documentation such as receipts and invoices, which
clearly show what goods and services were purchased, must be submitted with the
claim.
   D.   Employee Responsibilities and Acknowledgment Form:
      1.   All employees issued a credit card must sign an acknowledgment form
recognizing their responsibility to comply with the city’s policy regarding
credit cards.
      2.   In the event of a lost card, it is the responsibility of the
employee authorized to use the card to immediately cancel the card and notify
the department head.
   E.   Noncompliance:
      1.   If any employee uses a city credit card for any unauthorized
transaction in violation of this policy and incurs financial liability on the
city’s part that is not within the scope of the employee’s duties or the
employee’s authorization to make business-related purchases, the cost of such
purchase will be the financial responsibility of that employee.
      2.   Failure to comply with this policy may subject an employee to
disciplinary action including suspension or discharge. In addition, all
violations of this policy will be reported to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
(Ord. O-20-011, 9-8-2020)
ARTICLE 8A: CITY MANAGER
Section
1-8A-1: Office Established; Appointment And Term
1-8A-2: Bond
1-8A-3: Powers And Duties
1-8A-4: Office
1-8A-5: Absence Or Removal From Office
1-8A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The office of city manager is hereby established. The city manager shall be
appointed by the city council for an indefinite term, as provided by law. The
city manager shall be the chief administrative officer and administrative head
of the city and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all
departments. The manager shall be appointed without regard to his or her
political beliefs and need not be a resident of the city when appointed. The
conditions of the manager’s employment may be set forth in an agreement.
(1989 Code §§ 2-181.1, 2-182)
1-8A-2: BOND:
Before taking office, the city manager shall furnish a fidelity bond in the
amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties, with a corporation licensed to do business in
Illinois as surety. The bond shall be at the expense of the city and filed with
the city clerk after being approved by the city council.
(1989 Code § 2-181.1)
1-8A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the city manager shall be to:
   A.   Enforce the laws and ordinances within the city.
   B.   1.   Appoint and remove all directors and heads of city departments and
hire and dismiss all other employees of the city except officers required by
law to be appointed by the mayor or the city council. The manager shall report
to the mayor and city council the appointment or removal of a department head
as soon as possible after such appointment or removal.
      2.   No appointment shall be made upon any basis other than that of merit
and fitness. The manager may, however, delegate to any other official or
employee the authority to hire or discharge any employees so authorized.
   C.   Exercise control of all departments and divisions thereof created in
article 5 of the Illinois municipal code, being 65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq., or
that may be created by the city council. Every administrative department of the
city shall be under the supervision and control of the manager.
   D.   1.   Prepare and submit to the city council the annual budget
ordinance.
      2.   For the purpose of preparing the budget estimate provided in this
subsection, the manager is authorized to require all officers and heads of
departments to submit statements of the condition and expenses of their
respective offices and departments, a description of proposed city improvements
and the probable costs thereof, a description of all unperformed contracts and
a statement of the amounts of all unexpended appropriations of the preceding
year.
   E.   Attend all meetings of the city council with the right to take part in
the discussions, but with no right to vote.
   F.   Recommend to the city council for adoption such measures as the manager
may deem necessary or expedient.
   G.   In all contracts with the city as a party, sign the same on behalf of
the city, and see that the other contractor party faithfully complies with the
contract. In all suits with the city as a party, it shall be the duty of the
city manager to advise with and assist the city attorney in prosecuting or
defending the same, as the case may be.
   H.   1.   Negotiate and approve contracts, agreements, or settlements on
behalf of the city, provided that any payment to be made from city funds to any
party to the contract, agreement, or settlement, other than the city, pursuant
to the terms of such contract, agreement, or settlement does not exceed
$20,000, or such other amount as may be established by the city council from
time to time, which approval authority shall be inclusive of costs or
attorneys’ fees to be paid to such other party to the contract, agreement, or
settlement. The authority granted the city manager pursuant to this section
shall include, without limitation, approval of contracts for goods or services,
settlement and/or separation agreements with current or former employees, and
settlement of claims or suits against the city by any individual or entity. The
manager shall also have authority, pursuant to any contract, agreement or
settlement described in this subsection H1, to waive any right of the city to
bring any claim or cause of action against another party.
      2.   Any contract, agreement, or settlement described in this section H
that exceeds the limits set forth in subsection H1 above must be approved by
the city council prior to execution by the manager.
   I.   Cause to be prepared and to submit to the city council each month a
statement of the financial condition of the city.
   J.   Have and exercise the authority and duties of any head or director of a
department or division thereof prescribed by this code or any amendment thereof
during the time when the office of any such department or division shall be
vacant.
   K.   Prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct of the various
departments of the city and the divisions thereunder.
   L.   Be responsible for all collective bargaining on behalf of the city.
(1989 Code § 2-183)
   M.   Prepare the tax levy ordinance for passage and file a certified copy
thereof with the city and county clerks within the time required by law.
(1989 Code § 2-184)
   N.   Keep current accounts showing at all times the fiscal condition of the
city, including the current and anticipated expenses, appropriations, cash on
hand and anticipated revenues of municipal funds and accounts. The manager
shall see to the collection of all monies due the city.
(1989 Code § 2-185)
   O.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the statutes of the
state, by this code, or by any ordinance or resolution of the city council.
(1989 Code § 2-183)
1-8A-4: OFFICE:
The city manager shall maintain an office in the city hall and shall spend such
time in the performance of his or her duties as may be required by the city
council.
(1989 Code § 2-186)
1-8A-5: ABSENCE OR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Absence Or Disability: In the case of the continued absence or disability of
the city manager, the city council may designate a qualified administrative
officer of the city to perform the duties of the manager during such absence or
disability.
(1989 Code § 2-187)
ARTICLE 8B: CITY CLERK
Section
1-8B-1: Appointment
1-8B-2: Oath And Bond
1-8B-3: Powers And Duties
1-8B-4: Office And Hours
1-8B-5: Deputy Clerk
1-8B-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city clerk shall be appointed by a majority vote of the city council, as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-5-4.
(1989 Code § 2-201)
1-8B-2: OATH AND BOND:
The city clerk, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take the oath of office as nearly as may be in the form prescribed in this
title for the mayor, and shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), with such sureties as may be approved by
the city council, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his
or her office and the payment of all monies received, which bond shall be filed
with the city treasurer.
(1989 Code § 2-202)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
1-6-1A of this title
1-8B-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the city council and shall
keep in a suitable book to be styled “Minutes Of The City Council” a full and
faithful record of its proceedings. He or she shall issue and cause to be
served upon the city council notices of all special meetings of the council and
notices to the members of the different committees of that body, and to all
other persons whose attendance may be required before any such committee, when
so directed by the chair thereof, and shall safely keep the corporate seal and
use it in all cases where necessary, whenever applied to for that purpose.
   B.   The city clerk shall, without unnecessary delay, upon the adjournment
of each meeting of the city council, deliver to the several committees of that
body, and the officers of the city, all petitions, communications, reports,
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the council.
   C.   The city clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and
other official documents required to be issued by him or her, under the laws
and provisions of this code, and shall attest all deeds for the sale of real
estate owned and conveyed by the city, and is hereby authorized to procure for
the city such blank forms as may be necessary for the proper discharge of his
or her duties.
   D.   The city clerk shall preserve in his or her office all books, records,
papers, maps and effects of every description belonging to the city and
appertaining to his or her office, and upon the expiration in any way of his or
her official term, he or she shall, on demand, deliver all such books, records,
maps, papers and effects to his or her successor in office.
   E.   The city clerk shall not suffer any records, papers or other
instruments in writing to be taken out of his or her office by any other person
than himself or herself, the mayor, the city attorney or any official to whose
duties such paper or papers may appertain, under penalty and a further
forfeiture of the amount of damages sustained by the loss or obliteration of
any records or property of the city, and should any be lost or obliterated
while in the possession of the mayor, the city attorney or any council member
or entrusted to any of them, the clerk shall be responsible for the damage that
may accrue by such loss or obliteration.
   F.   The city clerk shall index all ordinances by their titles and enter
them in the ordinance record and keep a list of all committees appointed by the
city council and of the business, respectively, from time to time referred to
them, and note when the committees report and the date and nature of such
report.
   G.   The city clerk shall procure a suitable record book in which he or she
shall file and preserve copies of all ordinances passed and published by the
city council, together with the certificates of the publisher or publishers
thereof.
   H.   The city clerk shall have all ordinances published immediately after
their passage, which are required by law to be published.
(1989 Code § 2-204)
   I.   The city clerk shall perform all such other and further duties
pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or her by law
or ordinance, or by resolution of the city council.
(1989 Code § 2-205)
1-8B-4: OFFICE AND HOURS:
The city clerk shall keep his or her office in the city hall. His or her office
hours shall be as directed by the city manager and shall be regularly kept.
(1989 Code § 2-203)
1-8B-5: DEPUTY CLERK:
The city clerk may, when necessary and upon approval of the city council,
appoint one deputy who, during the temporary absence or disability of the
clerk, shall be empowered to perform all the duties of the clerk, and the clerk
shall be held responsible for the acts and fidelities of such deputy.
(1989 Code § 2-206)
ARTICLE 8C: CITY TREASURER
Section
1-8C-1: Appointment
1-8C-2: Oath And Bond
1-8C-3: Powers And Duties
1-8C-4: Special Assessments And Taxes
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city treasurer shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council, as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-5-4.
(1989 Code § 2-226)
1-8C-2: OATH AND BOND:
The city treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take the oath of office as nearly as may be in the form prescribed in this
title for the mayor, and shall execute a bond to the city in the amount
provided by statute, with at least two (2) good and sufficient sureties to be
approved by the city council, conditioned for the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her office and the payment of all monies received by him or
her, according to law and the provisions of this code.
(1989 Code § 2-227)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
1-6-1A of this title
1-8C-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   In addition to all statutory duties and powers of a city treasurer
pursuant to the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 through and
including 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85), the treasurer, along with help from the city
manager, the city’s hired accounting agency and city office staff shall have
the following powers and duties:
      1.   Receive all monies belonging to the city and make daily deposits of
such sums of money as shall be received by him or her from all sources of
revenue whatsoever, to his or her credit as treasurer of the city, in one or
more banks or savings and loan associations situated in the city and duly
selected in accordance with law. He or she shall keep a separate account of
each fund or appropriation and debits and credits belonging thereto. He or she
shall give to every person paying money into the city treasury a receipt
therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon which account paid, and he or
she shall file copies of such receipts with the city clerk at the date of his
or her monthly report.
      2.   Keep an accurate register of all warrants redeemed and paid by him
or her, showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid
and the amount and the name of the person to whom and when paid, and shall
cancel all warrants as soon as redeemed thereby.
      3.   Pay out of the city treasury, upon orders drawn on him or her by the
city clerk, which order shall be signed by the mayor and the city clerk or the
city manager and the city clerk, sealed with the city seal, and shall state for
what purpose the money that is appropriated and from what fund, and the orders
and certificates thus drawn shall be vouchers for his or her expenditures. If
there are no funds in the treasury, the treasurer shall endorse a time, day and
year in which the same was presented, and all orders shall be presented by him
or her in the order in which they are presented, or the treasurer shall keep
his or her accounts in some bank or savings and loan association, and the
checks drawn thereon shall be considered his or her warrants when signed by the
mayor and the city clerk and/or the city manager and the city clerk.
      4.   Keep all monies in his or her hands belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own monies, and he or she is hereby expressly
prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the city monies or
warrants in his or her custody and keeping them for his or her own use and
benefit, or that of any other person. Any violation of this subsection will
subject the treasurer to removal from office by the city council.
      5.   Report to the city manager any officer or agent of the city
authorized to receive monies for the use of the city who fails to make a return
of the monies received by him or her at the time required by law or by the
provisions of this code.
      6.   Keep his or her books and accounts in such manner as to show, with
entire accuracy, all monies received and disbursed by him or her for the city,
stating from whom and on what account received and to whom and on what account
paid out, and in such way that such books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood and the same, with all files and papers of such
office, shall be at all times open to examination by the mayor, council
members, city manager, city clerk or city attorney. The treasurer may delegate
to the clerk the above duties, but the same shall be his or her responsibility
and shall be kept under his or her direction and approval.
      7.   At the end of each month, or more often if so required by the city
council or the city manager, individually or through his or her agent, the city
clerk, render an account under oath to the city clerk or to the city council
directly, showing the state of the city treasury at the date of such report and
the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall accompany such account
with a statement of monies received into the treasury and on what account
received, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her during the
preceding month, which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her,
shall be delivered to the city clerk and filed with his or her account in the
clerk’s office, and he or she shall return all warrants paid by him or her,
stamped or marked paid
      8.   Upon the close of each fiscal year, make out and file with the city
clerk a full and detailed report of all receipts and expenditures of the city,
as shown by his or her books, and of all of his or her transactions as
treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and he or she shall, in such
report, show the condition of the city treasury at the close of such fiscal
year, which report the city clerk shall cause to be published without delay.
Such report, however, may be made, if directed by the city council, by an
accountant to be engaged for that purpose. The report, however, shall be the
responsibility of the city treasurer.
      9.   Pay the workers on city improvements when properly certified to him
or her by payroll by the director of streets and public improvements and
approved by the city manager, who shall report the same to the city council and
have the warrants issued payable to the city treasurer for the amount of such
payroll.
      10.   Oversee all accounting functions and departments of the city,
including accounts payable, accounts receivable, utility billing, cash
receipts, and payroll; oversee the annual audit process in cooperation with the
city manager; and conduct internal audits of the financial functions of other
city departments.
      11.   Oversee the issuance and repayment of all city debt obligations and
bonds, and maintain payment schedules of the same.
      12.   Oversee and maintain the city’s pension accounts and payment
schedules.
      13.   Attend all meetings of the city council with the right to
participate in the discussion with regard to financial matters, but with no
right to vote.
      14.   Attend police and fire pension meetings and review quarterly
reports with the pension board.
   B.   Administrative and financial duties of the treasurer, as set forth in
this section, may be delegated to a third party accounting or financial
advisory firm, upon recommendation by the city manager. The appointment of any
such third party accounting or financial advisory firm shall be approved by the
city council. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the approval and signatory powers
of the treasurer shall not be so delegated.
(1989 Code § 2-229)
   C.   1.   The duties of treasurer described in this section shall be
included among the duties of the director of finance, hereafter referred to as
director of finance and treasurer; and
      2.   The duties of the director of finance and treasurer shall
additionally include the statutory requirements of a Treasurer, enumerated in
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 through and including 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85, attached hereto
Ord. O-17-005 and made a part hereof as Exhibit A as if included in length
herein.
(Ord. O-17-005, 3-6-2017)
1-8C-4: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES:
   A.   Fund Established; Disposition Of Funds: All monies received by the city
treasurer on any special assessment or special tax shall be held by him or her
as a special fund and shall be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which such special assessment or special tax was made, and such money shall be
used for no other purpose whatever, except to reimburse the city for money
expended for such improvement.
(1989 Code § 2-231)
   B.   Serve As Ex Officio Collector Of Special Assessments And Taxes: The
city treasurer shall be ex officio collector of all special taxes that may now
or hereafter be assessed or levied for any local improvements and shall perform
such duties as may be designated from time to time by the city council.
(1989 Code § 2-232)
ARTICLE 8D: FIRE MARSHAL
Section
1-8D-1: Appointment
1-8D-2: Duties
1-8D-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of fire marshal. The fire marshal shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council.
(1989 Code § 10-227)
1-8D-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the fire marshal to enforce, under the supervision of
the chief of the fire department, all provisions of the fire code, as amended,
adopted by the city, and all other ordinances, regulations or laws pertaining
to the prevention of fires.
(1989 Code § 10-228)
Cross-reference:
   See section
9-5-1 of this code
CHAPTER 9: ETHICS
Section
1-9-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Interpretation
1-9-4: Prohibited Acts
1-9-5: Penalties
1-9-6: Amendments
1-9-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the state officials and employees ethics act (5 ILCS 430/1-1 et
seq.) (hereinafter referred to as the “act”), the city hereby adopts and makes
applicable to the political activities of officers and employees of the city,
and the soliciting and accepting of gifts by and the offering and making of
gifts to officers and employees of the city, the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/5-15
and article 10 of the Act.
(2017 Code)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
(2017 Code)
1-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
(2017 Code)
1-9-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
(2017 Code)
1-9-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, an officer or
employee who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter is subject to
discipline or discharge.
(2017 Code)
1-9-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes affective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the city shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal adoption by the corporate authorities of the city.
(2017 Code)
1-9-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be deemed repealed, without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city, as of the date that the Illinois supreme
court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or
rehearings.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(2017 Code)
CHAPTER 10: TAXATION
ARTICLE 10A: TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Section
1-10A-1: Title
1-10A-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-10A-3: Definitions
1-10A-4: Notice Requirements
1-10A-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-10A-6: Application Of Tax Payments
1-10A-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-10A-8: Audit Procedure
1-10A-9: Appeals
1-10A-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-10A-11: Installment Contracts
1-10A-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-10A-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-10A-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-10A-15: Review Of Liens
1-10A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ORDINANCE.
1-10A-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply to the city
procedures in connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This article shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the city tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling.
1-10A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The “local government taxpayers’ bill of rights act”.
CITY: The city of Princeton, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk is charged with the administration and
collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this article
to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by city that is
collected or administered by the city and not an agency or department of the
state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1-10A-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the person
concerned at the person’s last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery.
1-10A-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   A.   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
   B.   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable
U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the city,
with adequate postage prepaid.
1-10A-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period.
1-10A-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The city shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who
has not paid the amounts directly to the city.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
1-10A-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer’s Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or
tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the city determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax.
1-10A-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s
issuance or a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
1-10A-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
1-10A-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer.
1-10A-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or, if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
1-10A-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
1-10A-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk’s office.
1-10A-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
ARTICLE 10B: MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
1-10B-1: Retailers’ Occupation Tax
1-10B-2: Service Occupation Tax
1-10B-3: Use Tax
1-10B-1: RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-1 of
the Illinois municipal code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report to the
state department of revenue required by section 3 of an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
to purchasers for use or consumption, approved June 28, 1933, as amended, being
35 ILCS 120/3.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(1989 Code § 6-1)
1-10B-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in
the city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/
8-11-1.4.
   B.   Report Required: Every serviceman required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by the service occupation tax act, as amended.
(1989 Code § 6-2)
1-10B-3: USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.5 upon the privilege of using in the city any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible property with “selling price” to have the
meaning provided in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955 as amended.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the state department
of revenue for the city and shall be paid before the title or certificate of
registration for the personal property is issued.
(1989 Code § 6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6 and 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
ARTICLE 10C: HOTEL/MOTEL USE TAX
Section
1-10C-1: Definitions
1-10C-2: Tax Imposed; Rate; Exemptions
1-10C-3: Tax Is Additional
1-10C-4: Responsibility For Tax
1-10C-5: Collection Procedure
1-10C-6: Inspection Of Books And Records
1-10C-7: Tax Returns And Payments
1-10C-8: Failure To Pay Tax
1-10C-9: Penalty on Delinquent Tax Balances
1-10C-10: Disposition And Use Of Proceeds
1-10C-11: Penalty
1-10C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses
and apartment houses.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or possession
of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use
and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel.
OWNER: Any person having sufficient proprietary interest in conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the
rental of such hotel or motel room so as to entitle such person to all or a
portion of the net receipts thereof.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
RENTER: A person who seeks the privilege of occupying a hotel room.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(1989 Code § 6-26)
1-10C-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; EXEMPTIONS:
There is hereby levied and imposed upon the occupancy of a hotel room within
the city a tax of five percent (5%) of the rental or leasing charge for each
such hotel room rented for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion
thereof. However, the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person who
is a permanent resident of the hotel.
(1989 Code § 6-28)
1-10C-3: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax levied in this article shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges.
(1989 Code § 6-28)
1-10C-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR TAX:
The ultimate incident of and liability for payment of such tax shall be borne
by the renter.
(1989 Code § 6-28)
1-10C-5: COLLECTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner, manager or operator of every hotel
to act as trustee for and on account of the city and to secure such tax from
the renter of the hotel room and pay over to the city clerk such tax under
procedures prescribed by the city clerk or as otherwise provided in this
article.
   B.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this article shall
secure such tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel room. Upon the invoice, receipt or other statement or
memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment, the amount
due under the tax provided in this article shall be stated along with other
taxes on such document.
(1989 Code § 6-28)
1-10C-6: INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The city clerk, or any person certified as his or her deputy or
representative, may enter the premises of any hotel for inspection and
examination of books and records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this article and to ensure the enforcement of the collection
of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the city clerk or his or her duly authorized deputy or
representative in the discharge or performance of his or her duties herein.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the city clerk or his or her deputy or authorized
representative shall have access at reasonable times which shall accurately
reflect the number of hotel rooms rented during a twenty four (24) hour period
or multiple rentals thereof and the actual hotel receipts collected for the
date in question.
(1989 Code § 6-29)
1-10C-7: TAX RETURNS AND PAYMENTS:
The owner or owners of each hotel within the city shall file tax returns
showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel room during each month
commencing on January 1, 1986, and continuing on the first day of every month
thereafter on forms prescribed by the city clerk. The return shall be due on or
before the last day of the calendar month succeeding the end of the month
filing period. (For example, the return for the month of January, 1986, was due
February 28, 1986.) All tax shown due on such return shall be payable at the
time of filing the return.
(1989 Code § 6-30)
1-10C-8: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   Delinquent Balances:
      1.   That a penalty of five percent (5%) be imposed on any uncollected
amount of Municipal Hotel Use Tax deemed to be past due from registered or
unregistered hotel/motel/short-term rental uses.
      2.   That this chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and ten (10) day period of publication in the manner
provided by law.
   B.   Court Enforcement Of Payment: Whenever any person shall fail to pay any
tax as provided in this article, the city shall bring or cause to be brought an
action to enforce the payment of such tax in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(1989 Code §§ 6-30 and 6-31; amd. Ord. O-23-021, 1-2-2024)
1-10C-9: PENALTY ON DELINQUENT TAX BALANCES:
   A.   The City of Princeton, Bureau County, Illinois ("City") is authorized
by Section 8-3-14a(a), Division 3, Levy and Collection of Taxes, Illinois
Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-3-14a(a)) to provide for the effective
administration and collection of the Municipal Hotel Use Tax; and
   B.   The City Council finds it is in the best interests of the City to
impose a penalty of five percent (5%) on delinquent balances of the Municipal
Hotel Use Tax among the hotel/motel/short-term rental uses as authorized
herein; and
   C.   That a penalty of five percent (5%) be imposed on any uncollected
amount of Municipal Hotel Use Tax deemed to be past due from registered or
unregistered hotel/motel/short-term rental uses.
(Ord. O-23-021, 1-2-2024)
1-10C-10: DISPOSITION AND USE OF PROCEEDS:
   A.   Disposition: All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax
under this article, including penalties and interest, shall be paid into the
city treasury and shall be credited to and deposited in the general fund of the
city.
   B.   Use:
      1.   The amount collected by the city pursuant to this article shall be
expended by the city solely to promote tourism, conventions and other special
events within the city, and shall not be used to advertise for or otherwise
promote new competition in the hotel business, as set forth in section 8-3-14
of the Illinois municipal code, pursuant to the following procedure.
      2.   The city shall use amounts collected pursuant to this article as the
city determines are necessary and appropriate under the Illinois municipal
code.
(Ord. O-15-08-01-22, 8-17-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14
1-10C-11: PENALTY:
   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this article, except when otherwise specifically provided,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such
offense.
(1989 Code § 6-27)
ARTICLE 10D: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
1-10D-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
1-10D-2: Collection of Tax by Retailers
1-10D-3: Effective Date
1-10D-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the compassionate use of
medical cannabis pilot program act, at retail in the city of Princeton at the
rate of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the
course of that business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-22, of the Illinois municipal code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
(Ord. O-19-021, 9-16-2019)
1-10D-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   1.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois department of revenue (“department”). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this ordinance and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state.
      2.   Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller’s tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that
sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department. The
department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. O-19-021, 9-16-2019)
1-10D-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the tax
provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after January 1,
2020.
(Ord. O-19-021, 9-16-2019)
ARTICLE 10E: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX/MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
Section
1-10E-1: Purpose
1-10E-2: Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed
1-10E-3: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
1-10E-4: Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes
1-10E-5: Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue
1-10E-6: Effective Date
1-10E-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, provides that the
corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all ordinances and make all
rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers
granted to municipalities with such fines or penalties as may be deemed proper;
   B.   The City of Princeton, Illinois non-home rule Illinois municipality
pursuant to the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, as amended;
   C.   Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
provides that. beginning on January 1, 2026, all Illinois municipalities may
impose a tax upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in the municipality (the “Municipal Grocery Tax”) (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24);
   D.   The Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax may be imposed “at the
rate of l% of the gross receipts from these sales” (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24);
   E.   Any Municipal Grocery Retailers. Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue;
   F.   Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
requires any municipality imposing a Municipal Grocery Retailers Occupation Tax
under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24) to
also impose a Service Occupation Tax at the same rate, “upon all persons
engaged in the municipality in the business of making sales of service, who, as
an incident to making those sales of service, transfer groceries” as “an
incident to a sale of service” (the “Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax”)
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-24);
   G.   Any Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue;
   H.   The City Council of the believes that it is appropriate. necessary and
in the best interests of the City of Princeton and its residents, that the City
levy a Municipal Grocery Retailers Occupation Tax as permitted by Section 8-11-
24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and
   I.   The City Council believes that it is appropriate, necessary and in the
best interests of the City of Princeton and its residents, that the City levy a
Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax as permitted by Section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-4).
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
1-10E-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
chapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
1-10E-3: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in th is municipality in
the business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those
sales of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The
rate of this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section 1-10E-2, above.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
1-10E-4: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
1-10E-5: CLERK TO FILE ORDINANCE WITH ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE:
   As required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 I LCS
5/8-11-24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
chapter with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before April 1, 2025.
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
1-10E-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall take effect on the later of:
   A.   January 1, 2026;
   B.   The first day of July next following the adoption and filing of this
chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding
April 1; or
   C.   The first day of January next following the adoption and filing of this
chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding
October 1.
(Ord. O-24-023, 1-6-2025)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1: BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
Section
2-1-1: Board Created; Composition
2-1-2: Appointment And Terms
2-1-3: Qualifications
2-1-4: Oath And Bond
2-1-5: Compensation
2-1-6: Removal Of Members
2-1-7: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is created a board of fire and police commissioners consisting of three
(3) members, as provided by statute.
(1989 Code § 3-91)
2-1-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall be appointed by the mayor, by
and with the consent of the city council. The members of the board of fire and
police commissioners shall serve three (3) year staggered terms and until their
respective successors shall be appointed and qualified; provided, that no such
appointments shall be made by any mayor within thirty (30) days before the
expiration of his or her term of office.
(1989 Code § 3-92)
2-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall have
qualifications as are now, or may hereafter be, required of them by statute.
(1989 Code § 3-93)
2-1-4: OATH AND BOND:
Each member of the board of fire and police commissioners shall take an oath or
affirmation of office and shall execute and deliver to the city a bond in the
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with such sureties as the city council
shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his or
her office.
(1989 Code § 3-93)
2-1-5: COMPENSATION:
The secretary of the board of fire and police commissioners shall serve without
compensation for his or her services, and the members of such board shall serve
without compensation.
(1989 Code § 3-95)
2-1-6: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall be subject to
removal from office as provided by statute.
(1989 Code § 3-93)
2-1-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall have such powers and duties as
now, or as may hereafter be, provided by statute.
(1989 Code § 3-94)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE AND POLICE PENSION BOARDS
Section
2-2-1: Firefighters’ Pension Fund Board Of Trustees
2-2-2: Police Pension Fund Board Of Trustees
2-2-1: FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a board of trustees of the
firefighters’ pension fund.
(1989 Code § 3-122)
   B.   Appointment: The members of the board of trustees of the firefighters’
pension fund shall be appointed as provided in the Illinois pension code, being
40 ILCS 5/4-105.
(1989 Code § 3-123)
   C.   Duties: The board of trustees of the firefighters’ pension fund shall
have the responsibility of the operation of the firefighters’ pension fund in
accordance with state law.
(1989 Code § 3-124)
Cross-reference:
   Firefighters' Pension Fund, see section
5-3-12 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters’ pension fund, see 40 ILCS 5/4-101 et seq.
2-2-2: POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
A board of trustees of the police pension fund shall be duly appointed and
operated in accordance with section 3-128 et seq., of the Illinois pension
code, being 40 ILCS 5/3-128.
(1989 Code § 3-121)
CHAPTER 3: LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD
Section
2-3-1: Name Of Library
2-3-2: Original Donation For Library
2-3-3: Library Board Of Trustees
2-3-4: Funding
2-3-5: Use Of Library
2-3-6: Damage To Property
2-3-7: Violations; Penalty
2-3-1: NAME OF LIBRARY:
The public library and reading room established by this chapter shall be known
as and called “The Princeton Public Library”.
(1989 Code § 3-62)
2-3-2: ORIGINAL DONATION FOR LIBRARY:
The donation made to the town, now city, of Princeton, by the last will of the
late Nehemiah Matson for the purpose of establishing a free public library for
the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the town, now city, is hereby
accepted by the city, and the ordinance approving the same is hereby readopted.
(1989 Code § 3-63)
2-3-3: LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Composition: The library board shall be composed of nine (9) trustees,
appointed by the Mayor.
(1989 Code § 3-57)
   B.   Appointment And Terms: Before July 1 of each year, the mayor, with the
approval of the city council, shall appoint three (3) trustees, who shall hold
office for three (3) year staggered terms and until their successors are
appointed.
(1989 Code § 3-58)
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the board of trustees occasioned by removals,
resignations or otherwise shall be reported to the city council by the mayor
and be filled in like manner as original appointments.
   D.   Compensation: No trustee shall receive compensation as such.
(1989 Code § 3-59)
   E.   Organization: On the first Tuesday in July of each year, the trustees
shall elect one of their number president and shall elect a secretary and such
other officers as they may deem necessary. The board of trustees shall keep a
record of its proceedings and shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and
regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the library and
reading room as may be expedient, not inconsistent with this chapter. The board
shall have the power to appoint a treasurer and a suitable librarian and fix
his or her compensation, and also shall have the power to remove such
appointee, and shall, in general, carry out the spirit and intent of this
chapter in establishing and maintaining a public library and reading room.
   F.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The board shall have the exclusive control of the expenditure of all
monies collected for the library and deposited in the library fund, including
all monies received for the library under the last will of Nehemiah Matson,
deceased, and the income arising therefrom, and also including all monies paid
to the library fund by the city from its allocated personal property tax
replacement funds pursuant to 30 ILCS 115/12, and of the construction of any
library building, and of the supervision of any bequests, devises, donations or
contributions to the Princeton Public Library Association, and the care and
custody of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for
the purpose of a library, libraries or reading room.
      2.   The library board shall have the power to purchase or lease ground,
or to purchase, lease, erect and occupy an appropriate building or buildings
for the use of the library. When a building erected or purchased by the board
is not adapted to its purpose or needs, the board may remodel or reconstruct
such building. The board may sell or otherwise dispose of any real or personal
property that it deems no longer necessary or useful for library purposes, and
may lease to others any real property not immediately useful but for which
plans for ultimate use have been or will be adopted, but the city council shall
have the first right to purchase or lease.
(1989 Code § 3-60)
   G.   Annual Report: The library board of trustees shall make, on or before
May 30, an annual report to the city council, stating the condition of the
board’s trust on May 1 in that year, the various sums of money received from
the library fund and from other sources, and how such monies have been expended
and for what purposes, and other statistics, information and suggestions as the
board may deem of general interest. All portions of the report that relate to
the receipt and expenditure of money shall be verified by the affidavit of the
president or secretary of the board of trustees.
(1989 Code § 3-61)
2-3-4: FUNDING:
   A.   Annual Appropriation And Tax: The city council shall make annual
appropriations of such amount as may be deemed necessary for the support of the
library and reading room and levy a tax for the same; provided, that such
library tax shall be in addition to all other taxes or tax rates authorized to
be levied by the city, and shall not be a part of the taxes making up any rate
prescribed as a limitation on the amount of taxes the city may levy. All such
monies so received by taxation shall be deposited in the library fund.
   B.   Library Fund: The treasurer of the board shall be custodian of the
monies paid over to the board, and all monies received for the library shall be
deposited into a fund exclusively for the use of the library, which shall be
kept separate and apart from all other monies of the city. The fund shall be
drawn upon by the treasurer of the board of trustees of the library association
upon the properly authenticated warrants of the library board. Such warrants
shall be duly signed by the treasurer and cosigned by the president of the
library board and shall then and thereby constitute an order upon the city
treasurer for payment.
(1989 Code § 3-60)
   C.   Donations: Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal
property or real estate for the benefit of the library established in this
chapter shall have the right to vest the title to the money or real estate so
donated in the board of trustees of the public library and reading room
established in this chapter, to be held and controlled by said board, when
accepted according to the terms of the deed, gift, devise or bequest of such
property; and as to such property, the board shall be held and considered to be
a special trustee.
(1989 Code § 3-65)
2-3-5: USE OF LIBRARY:
   A.   The public library and reading room established by this chapter shall
be forever free to the inhabitants of the city, always subject to such
reasonable rules and regulations as the library board may adopt in order to
render the use of the library and reading room of the greatest benefit to the
greatest number.
   B.   The library board may exclude from the use of the library and reading
room any and all persons who shall willfully violate the rules.
   C.   The board may extend the privileges and use of the library and reading
room to persons residing outside of the city and in this state, upon such terms
and conditions as the board may from time to time, by its regulations,
prescribe.
(1989 Code § 3-64)
2-3-6: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
Every person who shall negligently injure any book or other property of the
library and reading room under the control of the board of trustees thereof, or
who shall neglect or refuse to return any book, periodical or paper belonging
thereto or under the control thereof, after demand therefor has been made by
the board or its agent, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(1989 Code § 3-66)
2-3-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Every person who shall willfully violate any rule or regulation adopted by the
board of trustees pursuant to section
2-3-5 of this chapter, and conspicuously posted in the room or rooms where the
books of the library and reading room are kept, or who shall be guilty of any
noisy, boisterous or disorderly conduct in or about such room or rooms, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with the provisions of title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. Any fines recovered for violations of this chapter
shall be paid into and become a part of the library fund.
(1989 Code § 3-56)
CHAPTER 4: RESERVED
CHAPTER 5: CITIZENS ELECTRIC UTILITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. O24-001, 2-20-2024)
CHAPTER 6: RESERVED
CHAPTER 7: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE TAX BOARD
Section
2-7-1: Board Established
2-7-2: Officers
2-7-3: Tax Receipts
2-7-4: Administration Of Funds
2-7-5: Bylaws
2-7-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established in the city a board known as the FOREIGN FIRE
INSURANCE BOARD, consisting of seven (7) trustees, which shall include the Fire
Chief and six (6) other members elected at large from the sworn members of the
Fire Department
(1989 Code § 3-315)
2-7-2: OFFICERS:
The officers of the foreign fire insurance board shall be a chairperson and a
treasurer, and shall be elected annually by the members of the board.
(1989 Code § 3-316)
2-7-3: TAX RECEIPTS:
The tax imposed pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 shall be paid to the treasurer of
the foreign fire insurance board and deposited into the foreign fire insurance
board account, and may be withdrawn by authorized officers of the board in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1.
(1989 Code § 3-317; amd. 2017 Code)
2-7-4: ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS:
The treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board shall administer the funds
paid to him or her pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq., for the maintenance,
use and benefit of the city fire department, as determined and authorized by a
majority who are, as their principal occupation, directly engaged in fire
suppression, fire inspection or fire prevention.
(1989 Code § 3-318; amd. 2017 Code)
2-7-5: BYLAWS:
The members of the fire department may provide bylaws governing the operation
of the foreign fire insurance board. The board shall make all needful rules and
regulations with respect to the board and the management of the money to be
appropriated to the board. The officers of the board shall develop and maintain
a listing of those items that the board feels are appropriate expenditures.
(1989 Code § 3-319)
CHAPTER 8: PEDESTRIAN - BICYCLE COMMISSION
Section
2-8-1: Purpose
2-8-2: Appointment Of Members
2-8-3: Qualifications
2-8-4: Terms
2-8-5: Officers
2-8-6: Meetings
2-8-7: Powers And Responsibilities
2-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this commission is to promote and encourage bicycling, walking
and running in a safe and efficient manner in the city of Princeton for the
purposes of health, recreation and transportation.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
The Princeton pedestrian-bicycle commission shall consist of seven (7) voting
members, five (5) of whom must be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor
and approved by the city council.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members shall be appointed on the basis of their expertise, experience and
commitment to bicycle and pedestrian issues, civic governance and municipal
policies.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-4: TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. Of
those members first taking office, two (2) shall be appointed for one (1) year,
three (3) for two (2) years, and two (2) for three (3) years. No members shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive three-year terms. Alternate members shall
be appointed to serve in the absence of or disqualification of the regular
board members. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members
shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-5: OFFICERS:
Officers shall consist of a chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary elected
by the pedestrian-bicycle commission who shall serve a term of one (1) year and
shall be eligible for reelection, but no members shall serve as an officer for
more than two (2) consecutive years. The chairperson shall preside over
meetings. In the absence of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall be
preside over meetings. In the absence of the chair and the vice-chair, a member
will be elected by those present to preside over the meeting. The secretary of
the pedestrian-bicycle commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Take minutes of each pedestrian-bicycle commission meeting;
   B.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the pedestrian-bicycle commission to the
members of the pedestrian-bicycle commission;
   C.   Give notice to the city clerk as provided herein, or by law, for all
public hearings conducted by the pedestrian-bicycle commission, as required
under 5 ILCS 120/ open meetings act;
   D.   Advise the mayor of vacancies on the pedestrian-bicycle commission and
expiring terms of members; and
   E.   Prepare and submit to the city council a complete record of the
proceedings before the commission on any matter requiring council
consideration.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions or
actions of the pedestrian - bicycle commission shall be made by a majority vote
of those members present and voting at any meetings where a quorum exists.
Meetings will be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by
resolution of the commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any
time upon the call of the chairperson. There shall be a minimum of four (4)
meetings per year.
   B.   No member of the pedestrian - bicycle commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition or demolition until such owner shall
first have had an opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the pedestrian -
bicycle commission, as provided herein.
   C.   The chairperson, and in his or her absence the acting chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
commission shall be open to the public. The commission shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examination and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be of public
record.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
2-8-7: POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
With the goal of achieving certification and recognition of the city of
Princeton as a “bicycle friendly community”, the powers and responsibilities of
the commission are as follows:
   A.   To adopt its own procedural regulations.
   B.   Develop a bike and pedestrian master plan for the city, such master
plan being subject to periodic review and revision by the commission based on
changes in traffic patterns and other changes associated with the growth of
Princeton.
   C.   Work in concert with the city of Princeton administration in
preparation and submission of funding requests, ordinances and planning related
to bicycle and pedestrian-related projects.
   D.   Develop programs and methodology for teaching proper bike use and
registration.
   E.   Advise city council and administration on issues relating to city
sidewalks, walkways, trails and other public works matters.
   F.   Analyze routing, operation and safety of bicycles, pedestrians and
runners.
   G.   Review and make recommendations regarding the city’s capital
improvement plan and bicycle master plan.
   H.   Perform a regular evaluation of bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and
recommend action to maintain and/or enhance those facilities.
   I.   Coordinate with Bureau County and other external public and private
sector entities on maps, regional connections to transportation infrastructure
and new projects.
   J.   In collaboration with local businesses, associations and organizations,
develop education and public outreach opportunities on bicycle and pedestrian
issues.
   K.   Monitor and participate in statewide and national bicycle and
pedestrian advocacy initiatives on behalf of Princeton residents.
   L.   Facilitate the hosting of bicycling, walking and running events which
will attract visitors from outside the city.
(Ord. O-17-018, 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 9: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
2-9-1: Purpose
2-9-2: Appointment Of Members
2-9-3: Qualifications
2-9-4: Terms
2-9-5: Officers
2-9-6: Meetings
2-9-7: Powers And Duties
2-9-8: Surveys And Research
2-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and use of improvements of the special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare
of the people of the city by:
   A.   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of Princeton which presents elements of the
city’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history;
   B.   To promote civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in Princeton’s landmarks and historic districts;
   C.   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of
Princeton’s landmarks and historic areas;
   D.   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to have buyers,
visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce, industry and
providing economic benefit to the city;
   E.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
2-9-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
The Princeton historic preservation commission shall consist of seven (7)
voting members, five (5) City of Princeton residents and two (2) Bureau County
residents, appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 0-34-98-7-20, 7-20-1998; amd. Ord. O-25-006, 2-18-2025)
2-9-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, experience or
interest in one (1) of the following areas: architectural history; building
construction or engineering; finance; historical and architectural
preservation; neighborhood organizing; or real estate.
(Ord. No 0-34-98-7-20, 7-20-1998)
2-9-4: TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. Of
those members first taking office, two (2) shall be appointed for one (1) year,
three (3) for two (2) years, and two (2) for three (3) years. No members shall
serve more than two (2) successive three-year terms. Alternate members shall be
appointed to serve in the absence of or disqualification of the regular board
members. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members shall
serve without compensation.
2-9-5: OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers shall consist of a chairperson, vice-chairperson and a
secretary elected by the preservation commission who shall serve a term of one
(1) year and shall be eligible for re-election, but no members shall serve as
an officer for more than two (2) consecutive years. The chairperson shall
preside over meetings. In the absence of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson
shall be elected by those present.
   B.   The secretary to the preservation commission shall have the following
duties:
      1.   Take minutes of each preservation commission meeting;
      2.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports and decisions of the preservation commission to the members of
the preservation commission;
      3.   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the preservation commission;
      4.   Advise the mayor of vacancies on the preservation commission and
expiring terms of members; and
      5.   Prepare and submit to the city council a complete record of the
proceedings before the preservation commission on any matter requiring council
consideration.
2-9-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions or
actions of the historic preservation commission shall be made by a majority
vote of those members present and voting at any meetings where a quorum exists.
Meetings will be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by
resolution of the commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any
time upon the call of the chairperson of the commission. There shall be a
minimum of four (4) meetings per year.
   B.   No member of the historic preservation commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition or demolition until such owner shall
first have had an opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the preservation
commission, as provided herein. The chairperson, and in their absence the
acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the preservation commission shall be open to the
public. The preservation commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed
in the office of the preservation commission and shall be of public record.
2-9-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
   B.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
   C.   To investigate and recommend to the city council to adopt procedures to
protect properties or structures having special historic, community or
architectural value;
   D.   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of properties or
structures which have special historic, community or architectural value;
   E.   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse, and on procedures for
inclusion on the state of Illinois national register of historic places;
   F.   To inform and educate the citizens of Princeton concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city by publishing appropriate maps,
newsletters, brochures and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars;
   G.   To accept and administer on behalf of the city of Princeton, upon
designation by the city council, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this chapter;
   H.   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts for
technical advice;
   I.   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the city
planning commission and the zoning board of appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant properties;
   J.   To periodically review the Princeton zoning ordinance and to recommend
to the city planning commission and the city council any amendments appropriate
for the protection and continued use of historically or architecturally
significant properties.
2-9-8: SURVEYS AND RESEARCH:
   A.   The historic preservation commission shall undertake an ongoing survey
and research effort in the city of Princeton to identify neighborhoods, areas,
structures, sites and objects that have historic, community, architectural or
aesthetic importance, interest or value. As part of the survey, the historic
preservation commission shall review and evaluate any prior surveys and studies
by any unit of government or private organization and compile appropriate
descriptions, facts and photographs.
   B.   The historic preservation commission shall identify significant
structures based upon the following criteria:
      1.   Architecturally or historically significant properties in one
identifiable neighborhood or district geographical area of the city of
Princeton;
      2.   Association with a particular person, event or historical period;
      3.   Representation of particular architectural style or school, or of a
particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or craftsman;
      4.   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the preservation commission
to assure systematic survey of all significant properties within the city of
Princeton.
CHAPTER 10: LOVEJOY HOMESTEAD COMMISSION
Section
2-10-1: Purpose
2-10-2: Appointment Of Members
2-10-3: Duties Of The Commission
2-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this commission is to assist the city in maintaining the Owen
Lovejoy Homestead, which is owned by the city, and which has been designated a
national historic landmark and opened as a museum in 1972.
2-10-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
The Lovejoy Homestead Commission shall consist of seven (7) board members,
residents of Princeton, who will serve an indefinite term. Whenever any vacancy
occurs on the commission, the remaining board members shall choose a candidate
to fill such vacancy. The candidate chosen by the board shall be given to the
mayor, who shall approve or deny the proposed candidate. If the candidate is
denied, the board shall choose another candidate for presentation to the mayor,
until such vacancy is filled.
2-10-3: DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   The commission’s position shall be advisory only, and the commission
shall have no power or authority to make decisions or take action regarding the
operation of the Owen Lovejoy Homestead.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the commission shall have the authority
to undertake the following duties, and shall be provided a budget by the city
council for the purpose of carrying out the same:
      1.   Routine maintenance of the grounds and buildings;
      2.   Hiring tour guides;
      3.   Handling publicity for the Homestead;
      4.   Coordinating and presenting educational programming about the
Homestead;
      5.   Developing an annual budget for the Homestead.
CHAPTER 11: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
2-11-1: Plan Commission/Board Of Zoning Appeals
2-11-2: Zoning Administrator
2-11-3: City Council
2-11-4: Development Review Committee
2-11-1: PLAN COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment: One decision making body functions as both the plan
commission and board of zoning appeals for the city. The plan commission/board
of zoning appeals was previously established by the city council.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   The commission consists of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the city council.
      2.   Commission members serve terms of staggered five (5) year periods.
       3.   The chair is designated by the mayor.
      4.   If possible, members should be registered architects, registered
professional engineers, builders or real estate appraisers.
      5.   Vacancies will be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as
appointments for a full term.
   C.   Meetings And Rules:
      1.   The commission must organize and adopt rules of procedure for its
own government according to the provisions of this title.
      2.   Meetings will be held at the call of the chair and at other times
that the commission determines, and must be open to the public.
      3.   Minutes of the proceedings and a record of all actions must be kept
by the secretary, showing the vote of each member upon each question, the
reasons for the commission’s determination and its finding of facts. These
records will be filed in the office of the zoning administrator and are a
public record.
      4.   Decisions on all matters before the commission require a concurring
vote of four (4) commission members.
   D.   Plan Commission Powers And Duties: The plan commission has the
following advisory powers and duties:
      1.   To hear and make recommendations for approval by the city council
regarding applications for text amendments, zoning map amendments, multi-family
design review, special uses, preliminary plats and planned developments,
according to the requirements of title 10 of this city code;
      2.   To request assistance from other city officers, departments,
commissions and boards;
      3.   The chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses;
      4.   To prepare and recommend for approval by the city council a
comprehensive plan to provide planning policies to guide future land use and
zoning decisions and to provide the basis for approval of all development under
title 10 of this city code; and
      5.   To recommend, from time to time, for approval by the city council,
changes in the comprehensive plan.
   E.   Board Of Zoning Appeals Powers And Duties: The board of zoning appeals
has the following powers and duties:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning administrator;
      2.   To hear and grant variations from the requirements of this title,
subject to the standards set out in title 10 of this city code;
      3.   To request assistance from other city officers, departments,
commissions and boards; and
      4.   The chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
2-11-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The zoning administrator is designated by the city
council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning administrator has the following powers
and duties:
      1.   To have the initial responsibility and authority for the
interpretation and enforcement of this title and all other applicable
ordinances, regulations and codes;
      2.   To enter and inspect any premises, as needed, in the performance of
these duties;
      3.   To attend all meetings of the plan commission/board of zoning
appeals for the purpose of providing technical assistance when requested by the
commission/board;
      4.   To review and issue building permits, sign permits and letters of
occupancy;
      5.   To hear and decide applications for interpretations of the use
classifications, land development regulations of title 10 of this city code,
and zoning district boundaries; and
      6.   To serve as a member of and call meetings of the development review
committee as needed.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
2-11-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council has the following powers and duties, in addition to those
established by other chapters of the city code:
   A.   Along with the plan commission, the city council must develop and
update the comprehensive plan to provide planning policies to guide future land
use and zoning decisions and to provide the basis for approval of all
development under title 10 of this city code;
   B.   To designate the zoning administrator;
   C.   To confirm members of the plan commission/board of zoning appeals;
   D.   To publish a revised zoning map according to subsection
10-1-8 of title 10 of this city code;
   E.   To give final approval for freestanding wireless communication
facilities;
   F.   To approve and accept subdivision improvements;
   G.   To give final approval for preliminary and final plats;
   H.   To propose and give final approval of text amendments to this title
according to section
10-11-2 of title 10 of this city code;
   I.   To propose and give final approval of amendments of the zoning map
according to section
10-11-3 of title 10 of this city code;
   J.   To give final approval for special uses and planned developments
according to sections
10-11-4,
10-11-5 and
10-11-6 of title 10 of this city code;
   K.   To issue mobile home park permits according to section
10-11-18 of title 10 of this city code;
   L.   To give final approval on applications for multi-family design review;
   M.   To hear and grant variations from the floodplain protection standards;
and
   N.   To give final approval for any other actions as required in title 10 of
this city code.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
2-11-4: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment: The development review committee is established to
function as an advisory committee that provides initial feedback on development
proposals and site plans.
   B.   Membership: The development review committee consists of the zoning
administrator and staff representatives from city departments deemed necessary
by the zoning administrator to provide input on site plans and development
proposals.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings will be held at the request of the zoning
administrator as a part of the city’s regular internal staff meetings.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The development review committee has the following
powers and duties:
      1.   To review and provide recommendations on site plans; and
      2.   To review and provide input on applications for special uses; zoning
map amendments, and other applications when requested by the zoning
administrator.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 12: PRINCETON PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION
Section
2-12-1: Purpose
2-12-2: Appointment Of Members
2-12-3: Qualifications
2-12-4: Terms
2-12-5: Officers
2-12-6: Meetings
2-12-7: Powers And Duties
2-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the exploration, installation and
appreciation of structures and experiences of artistic merit in the city of
Princeton and surrounding area by providing mechanisms to identify
opportunities and facilitate activities to:
   A.   Promote civic pride.
   B.   Engage residents in lifelong involvement in the arts in their many
forms.
   C.   Improve the economic and cultural vitality of Princeton.
   D.   Enhance the attractiveness and appeal of the city to current and
potential residents, buyers, visitors and customers, thereby providing
economic, cultural and social benefit.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
2-12-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS;
The Princeton public arts commission shall consist of nine (9) voting members,
five of whom must be residents or individuals employed in the city. All shall
be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council. Members shall serve
without compensation.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018; Ord. O-20-008, 7-6-2020)
2-12-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, experience or
interest in one (1) of the following areas: architecture; landscaping; place-
making; visual and sculptural arts; arts management; performing arts
presentation; civic governance and municipal policies and procedures.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
2-12-4: TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. Of
those members first taking office, two (2) shall be appointed for one (1) year,
three (3) for two (2) years, and two (2) for three ((3) years. No members shall
serve more than two (2) successive three-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term only.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
2-12-5: OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers shall consist of a chairperson, vice-chair and a secretary
selected by the commission who shall serve a term of one (1) year and shall be
eligible for re-election, but no members shall serve as an officer for more
than two (2) consecutive years. The chair shall preside over meetings. In the
absence of the chair and the vice-chair, a member shall be elected by those
present to preside over the meeting.
   B.   The secretary to the commission shall have the following
responsibilities:
      1.   Take minutes of each commission meeting.
      2.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports and decisions of the commission to the members of the
commission.
      3.   Give notice to the city clerk as provided herein or by law for all
public hearings conducted by the commission.
      4.   Advise the mayor and city council of vacancies on the commission and
expiring terms of members.
      5.   Prepare and submit to the city council a complete record of the
proceedings before the commission on any matter requiring council
consideration.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
2-12-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions or
actions of the public arts commission shall be made by a majority vote of those
members present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists. Meetings will
be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by resolution of the
commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any time upon the call
of the chair. There shall be a minimum of four (4) meetings per year. Meetings
shall conform to 5 ILCS 120/ open meetings act.
   B.   No member of the public arts commission shall vote on any matter that
may materially or apparently affect the property, income or business interest
of that member. No action shall be taken by the commission that could in any
manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use, modification,
maintenance, disposition or demolition until such owner shall first have had an
opportunity to be heard at a public meeting of the commission, as provided
herein.
   C.   The chair, and in his or her absence the acting chair, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the commission
shall be open to the public. The commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of
its examination and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed with the office of the city clerk and shall be of public record.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
2-12-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the commission are as follows:
   A.   To adopt its own procedural regulations, within state and local
statutes.
   B.   To establish criteria and processes for facilitating the expansion and
inclusion of public arts in city planning.
   C.   To advocate and build support for public arts in Princeton in
collaboration with government, regional and national arts organizations,
business and civic associations, and other stakeholders.
   D.   To assist in the selection of works of art to be permanently placed on
municipal property and seek contributions to expand public art in Princeton.
   E.   In collaboration with the historic preservation commission, undertake
an ongoing survey and research in the city of Princeton to identify artistic
artifacts or sites that have historic, community or aesthetic importance,
interest or value.
   F.   To periodically review the Princeton zoning ordinance and proposed city
budget, and to recommend to the city council and plan commission any amendments
appropriate for the protection, installation and maintenance of artistically
significant artistic expression.
   G.   To investigate and recommend to the city council properties or
structures having significant potential for public art.
   H.   To make recommendations for the design and implementation of specific
markings to show their significant artistic value.
   I.   To advise property owners on physical, legal, social and financial
aspects of creation, installation and maintenance of public art.
   J.   To identify and potential funding and other resources to support public
art.
   K.   To accept and administer on behalf of the city of Princeton, upon
designation by the city council, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this commission.
   L.   To call upon available city staff members and the historic preservation
commission and other experts for advice.
   M.   To testify before boards and commissions, including the plan
commission/board of zoning appeals and the historic preservation commission, on
any matter affecting historically, architecturally, culturally significant
properties or projects.
(Ord. O-18-002, 2-20-2018)
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Scope
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: General Licensing Requirements
3-1-5: Ineligibility For License
3-1-6: Application For License
3-1-7: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
3-1-8: Term Of License; Payment Of Fees
3-1-9: Number Of Licenses
3-1-10: Posting License
3-1-11: Nature of License; Transfer
3-1-12: Renewal Of License
3-1-13: BASSETT Training Required
3-1-14: Keg Registration Requirements
3-1-15: Location
3-1-16: Building And Premises Requirements
3-1-17: Days And Hours Of Sales; Presence On Premises After Hours
3-1-18: Employees
3-1-19: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited; Conduct On Premises
3-1-20: Persons Under Twenty One
3-1-21: Investigations; Rejection; Approval Of Application:
3-1-22: Record Of Issued And Revoked Licenses
3-1-23: Inspections
3-1-24: Emergency Closure Of Business
3-1-25: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-26: Gambling Devices Prohibited
3-1-27: Penalty
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be construed to the end that the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the city be protected and temperance in the consumption of
alcoholic liquors be fostered and promoted.
(1989 Code § 7-298) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-2: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of the city, including areas annexed
after the last referendum conducted in the city to determine whether or not
alcoholic liquor shall be sold within the then existing corporate limits.
However, no license to sell alcoholic liquor shall be issued in the city in
contravention of the results of such referendum.
(1989 Code § 7-299) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume.
BREW PUB: A person or entity who manufactures no more than one hundred fifty
five thousand (155,000) gallons of beer per year only at a designated licensed
premises to make sales to importing distributors, distributors and to non-
licensees for use and consumption only, who stores beer at the designated
premises, and who is allowed to sell at retail from the licensed premises for
consumption on or off the premises, provided that a brew pub licensee shall not
sell for off-premises consumption more than one hundred fifty five thousand
(155,000) gallons per year.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local liquor control
commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member his or her
name and address; and provided, further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer,
agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the license.
LICENSEE: Any person receiving a license under this chapter.
OWNER OR PROPRIETOR: Includes all persons who are owners or are in control of
any place where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on,
whether they are individuals, partnerships, corporations, joint stock
companies, fiduciaries or officers, directors or otherwise.
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE: Any establishment catering to the general public whose
principal business is the sale of alcoholic liquors, not for consumption on the
premises.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, club, association or corporation.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, where sales of food account for at least 50% of gross
revenues of such establishment, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SALES AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for resale in any form.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
(1989 Code § 7-296) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-4: GENERAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor, or
offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor, within the corporate limits of
the city without having first obtained a license and given bond therefor as
provided in this chapter, and having paid to the city clerk the license fee for
such license as provided in the city fee schedule, or in violation of the terms
of such license. All licenses hereunder shall be granted and issued by the
mayor as local liquor control commissioner. No license shall be issued after
receipt of an application until the city has had time to review the application
and verify the contents thereof.
(1989 Code § 7-331; amd. 2017 Code) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license authorized by this chapter may be issued to:
   A.   An applicant under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the commissioner determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person’s application and the commissioner’s investigation. The burden
of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residency within the
city.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the city.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983
(805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.) or the limited liability company act (805 ILCS 180/1-
1 et seq.) to transact business in Illinois. The commissioner shall permit and
accept from an applicant for a license under this chapter proof prepared from
the secretary of state’s website that the corporation or limited liability
company is in good standing and is qualified under the business corporation act
of 1983 or the limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or has
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   1.   Any law enforcing public official, the mayor, or any member of the
city council; except, that a license may be granted to such official in
relation to premises that is not located within the city if the issuance of
such license is approved by the state liquor control commission; and except,
that a license may be granted to any member of the city council in relation to
premises that is located within the city if:
         a.   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is
incidental to the selling of food;
         b.   The issuance of the license is approved by the state commission;
         c.   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
city ordinances; and
         d.   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the city council.
      2.   Notwithstanding any provision of this section
3-1-5 to the contrary, a member of the city council may have a direct interest
in the sale of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she is not a law enforcing
public official or the mayor. To prevent any conflict of interest, the elected
official with the direct interest in the sale of alcoholic liquor shall not
participate in any meetings, hearings or decisions on matters impacting the
sale of alcoholic liquor. Furthermore, the mayor may have an interest in the
sale of alcoholic liquor as long as the city council has made a local liquor
control commissioner appointment that complies with the requirements of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-2.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 (a)(3) through (a)(11), or as
proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3 (the criminal
code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012), or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles and poker runs act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.) or the
Illinois pull tabs and jar games act (230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.).
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21(a).
(2017 Code) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for a liquor license shall be made to the mayor in writing
upon forms prepared and furnished by the city, signed by the applicant, if an
individual; or by at least two members of a partnership, if the applicant is a
partnership, or if the applicant is a corporation, then by the president and
secretary thereof, verified by oath or affidavit of the signers, and shall
contain the following information and statement:
      1.   The applicant’s name and mailing address.
      2.   The name and address of the applicant’s business.
      3.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the assumed name of the
business with the county clerk.
      4.   In case of a co-partnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the business
corporation act of 1983 to transact business in Illinois.
      5.   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant’s current local retail liquor license.
      6.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased.
      7.   The date of the applicant’s first request for a city liquor license
and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn.
      8.   The address of the applicant when the first application for a city
liquor license was made.
      9.   The applicant’s current city liquor license number, if a renewal.
      10.   The date the applicant began liquor sales at his or her place of
business, if a renewal.
      11.   The address of the applicant’s warehouse if he or she warehouses
liquor.
      12.   The applicant’s retailer’s occupation tax (ROT) registration
number.
      13.   The applicant’s document locater number on his or her federal
special tax stamp.
      14.   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailer’s occupation tax (sales tax), and if so, the reasons therefor.
      15.   Whether the applicant is delinquent under the cash beer law, and if
so, the reasons therefor.
      16.   In the case of a retailer, whether he or she is delinquent under
the thirty (30) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      17.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor license
which has been denied, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      18.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      19.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling offense
or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof.
      20.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp,
and if so, the reasons therefor.
      21.   Whether the applicant, or any other person, directly interested in
his or her place of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars
thereof.
      22.   The applicant’s name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager and
any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant
business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business entity.
      23.   That he or she has not received or borrowed money or anything else
of value, and that he or she will not receive or borrow money or anything else
of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business
for a period not to exceed 90 days as herein expressly permitted under 235 ILCS
5/6-5), directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor or from any representative of any such manufacturer, importing
distributor or distributor, nor be a party in any way, directly or indirectly,
to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing distributor of 235
ILCS 5/6-6.
   B.   In addition to the information stated in subsection A of this section,
such application shall contain such other and further information as the local
commissioner may, by rule or regulation not inconsistent with law, prescribe.
If the applicant reports a felony conviction as required under subsection A19
of this section, such conviction may be considered by the local liquor control
commissioner in determining qualifications for licensing.
   C.   If an application under this section is made in behalf of a
partnership, firm, association, club or corporation, then the same shall be
signed by one member of such partnership or the president or secretary of such
corporation or an authorized agent of such partnership or corporation.
   D.   The application, addressed to the mayor as stated in subsection A of
this section, shall be filed with the city clerk with the appropriate fee as
set forth in the fee section. The city clerk shall deposit the fee in the
general corporate fund and present the application to the mayor within seven
calendar days after the clerk receives the application except, if the
application is one for a full year’s license, then the filing procedure will be
the same as used for a renewal of a license as set forth in section
3-1-12.
   E.   If there are no licenses available in the classification for which the
application is made, the mayor shall submit the application to the city council
at its next regular meeting after the application is filed and the city council
shall consider the question of the expansion of the number of licenses in that
classification. If the city council does not expand the number of licenses
available in that classification, the application shall be considered null and
void and any fee deposited with the city clerk shall be returned to the
applicant.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
   A.   The classifications of licenses issued under this chapter are as
follows.
      1.   Class A Retail License: The annual fee for a class A license for the
sale of alcoholic liquor, to be consumed either on or off the premises, shall
be in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The fee shall be payable in
full when the application for a license is filed. The licensee under this
subsection must provide an area in the licensed premises for the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in such licensed premises. The area must be large enough to
seat a minimum of ten (10) customers.
      2.   Class B Beer and Wine License: The annual fee for a class B license
for the sale of beer and wine, to be consumed on premises or off premises,
shall be in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). The fee shall be payable
in full when the application for a license is filed.
      3.   Class C Package Liquor Store License: The annual license fee for a
class C license for the sale of alcoholic liquor not to be consumed on the
premises shall be in the sum of nine hundred dollars ($900.00). The fee shall
be payable in full when the application for a license is filed.
      4.   Class D Club License: The annual fee for a class D license for the
sale of alcoholic liquor in a club as defined in 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24, and to be
sold and consumed on the premises by members of such club and invited guests of
such members, when such guest is personally attended by a member, shall be the
sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00). The fee shall be payable in full when
the application for a license is filed.
      5.   Class E Banquet Hall License: The annual license fee for a class E
license for the sale or other dispensing of alcoholic liquor on a premise with
an indoor one-room seating capacity of not less than one hundred (100) people
and used primarily for banquets, wedding receptions, meetings and similar
catered events, shall be the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). The fee
shall be payable in full when the application for a license is filed. This
license shall not be available to any facility that serves meals to the public
on an individual basis such as a restaurant or similar business.
      6.   Class F Unenclosed Premises License:
         a.   The annual license fee for a class F license shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). The fee shall be payable in full when the application for a
license is filed. The class F license shall be required for the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of any unenclosed or partially
enclosed area on the property or adjacent property of an existing class A, B,
D, E or R licensed location, place or premises. A person licensed under this
subsection shall be entitled to such privilege, upon the payment of such
additional fee, provided, however, that where one-half of the buildings wholly
within a distance of one hundred fifty (150) feet from the property boundaries
of such person’s licensed premises are used for residence or apartment house
purposes, such person shall first obtain and file with the city clerk the
written consent of a majority of the legal voters residing within such area. It
shall be the duty of the city building official to cause an investigation to be
made and to endorse on the application for such privilege whether or not one-
half of the buildings wholly within such area are used for residence or
apartment house purposes. The consent of majority is only required for
unenclosed areas established after April 2017.
         b.   A majority of the legal voters residing within a distance of one
hundred fifty (150) feet from the property boundaries of a location, place or
premises licensed pursuant to this subsection may file a petition with the city
clerk requesting the mayor, as local liquor control commissioner, to revoke the
privilege which allows for the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor in any
unenclosed or partially enclosed area on the property or adjacent to the
property of an existing licensed location, place or premises. Upon the filing
of such a petition, the mayor shall hold a hearing thereon pursuant to
appropriate statutory and ordinance procedure.
         c.   A minimum thirty six inch (36") high fence shall be required
around the unenclosed premises area. Fencing layout shall be approved by the
mayor and building official at the time of licensing.
      7.   Class G City Events and Festivals License (City Event Public
Property with Outdoor Consumption): The fee for a Class G license is twenty
five dollars ($25.00). A Class G license may be issued by the local liquor
control commissioner provided that all of the requirements of the special event
permit application are satisfied and the applicant obtains a special event
license from the state liquor control commission. This license shall authorize
either temporary retail sale of alcohol, from the licensed establishment for
consumption on city owned property only during the time period of a sanctioned
and specific city festivals or events.
      8.   Class P Video Gaming Parlor License: The annual license fee for a
class P license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The fee shall be
payable in full when the application for a license is filed. The class P
license shall be required for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
premises of a video gaming parlor, defined as an establishment or business
whose primary purpose is to operate video gaming terminals as defined under the
Illinois video gaming act and in which the sale of foods or snacks and
alcoholic beverages is only incidental to the operation of the video gaming
terminals, and which said Class P license shall not be issued for any premises
located within 150 feet of another establishment which offers video gaming
terminals.
      9.   Class R Restaurant License: The annual fee for a class R restaurant
license shall be nine hundred dollars ($900.00). The fee shall be payable in
full when the application for a license is filed. This license shall allow a
licensee to sell, serve or otherwise dispense alcoholic beverages to be
consumed upon the licensee’s premises. Licenses of this class will be
restricted to those establishments that derive more than fifty percent (50%) of
their annual gross revenue from the sale of prepared food. Class A license
holders who wish to apply for a class R license must surrender their class A
license which will then be cancelled.
      10.   Class S Special Events (Not for Profit License Holder): The fee for
a class S license is one hundred dollars ($100.00). Special events (class S)
license, which shall authorize the retail sale and consumption on the premises
specified of alcohol for limited time periods for special events provided that
all the requirements as outlined in the special event permit application are
met, and provided the applicant obtains a special event license from the state
liquor control commission. Class S licenses shall only be issued to a not-for-
profit entity authorized to do business in the state of Illinois.
      11.   Class T Temporary License: The fee for a Class T license is one
hundred dollars ($100.00). A class T license shall authorize the retail sale
for consumption of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises. Class T licenses
shall only be issued to persons or entities which currently hold a valid liquor
license issued by the city, and shall permit the sale and consumption of only
the type of alcoholic beverage allowed by the holders underlying license. The
intent of this license is to permit the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages on private property in areas not otherwise authorized by the holder’s
underlying license for a specified period of time. The applicant shall meet all
the requirements outlined in the special event permit application and obtain a
special event license from the state liquor control commission.
      12.   Sidewalk café permit.
         a.   Class A, B and R license holders who wish to operate a sidewalk
café shall submit an application for a sidewalk café permit in a form approved
by the city and submitted to the City Clerk. The application shall include: (i)
proof of insurance as required by this section; and (ii) a dimensional plan for
the sidewalk café, complying with all applicable regulations, and demonstrating
that the sidewalk café shall not unreasonably interfere with adequate
pedestrian flow, access to building entrances, pedestrian and traffic safety
and aesthetic quality of the surrounding area. Said plan shall depict the
sidewalk and all public improvements such as light posts, seating, benches,
planters, trees, location of the curb relative to the building, and the
proposed location of all furniture describing the furniture by height and type
of material.
         b.   Sidewalk café means a portion of an immobile retail establishment
located on a public right of way, whether directly adjacent thereto, or in
close proximity to, the licensed premises which contains seating. All outside
tables must be visible from the perimeters of your liquor license area.
         c.   Each applicant for a permit shall furnish a certificate of
insurance evidencing commercial general liability issuance of not less than
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence. The insurance shall
provide for thirty (30) days prior written notice to the city of Princeton if
coverage is changed, canceled or non-renewed. The city of Princeton shall be
named as an additional insured on a primary, noncontributory basis for any
liability arising directly or indirectly from the operations of a sidewalk
café, and the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city harmless from
any loss that results directly or indirectly from the permit issuance. In
addition, the applicant shall provide proof of liquor liability (dramshop)
insurance for the sidewalk café, of such type and in such amounts as required
by law.
         d.   A sidewalk café permit shall be for the exclusive use of the
licensed premises, and may not be assigned.
         e.   A sidewalk café permit shall only authorize food and alcoholic
beverage service at the sidewalk café. Regardless of what other activity may
take place inside of an establishment pursuant to license or permit, such
activity shall not be allowed at the sidewalk café by virtue of a permit issued
hereunder.
         f.   Drinks and food must be served by a waiter/waitress to the tables
outside. Patrons cannot get a drink or food inside and carry it out themselves.
         g.   All permits issued under this section shall run concurrently with
the applicant’s liquor license and the annual fee shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
         h.   All applications for permit shall be submitted by the city clerk
to the mayor for review. If the mayor finds the applicant meets the
requirements of this section, he or she shall cause the sidewalk café permit to
be issued. If the mayor finds the applicant fails to meet the requirements of
this section, he or she shall deny the application. An unsuccessful applicant
shall be notified in writing of the denial and the reasons therefore within ten
business days after denial. The denial of an application by the mayor may be
appealed to the city council within 30 calendar days of such denial.
         i.   Each sidewalk café shall comply in all respects with the
specifications set out in the plan, and with all other components of the
application.
         j.   The sidewalk café shall close no later than eleven o’clock (11:
00) p.m.
         k.   Businesses shall be responsible for keeping sidewalk café area
clean and free of litter.
         l.   No smoking shall be allowed in the sidewalk café area.
         m.   A minimum five (5) foot wide direct pedestrian sidewalk route
shall be maintained in front of all businesses. The route shall be unencumbered
by existing permanent obstructions such as street signs, utility poles,
benches, streetscaping, etc.
         n.   Outdoor furniture should be of sufficient quality as to not
create a windblown hazard.
         o.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and each day such a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
         p.   In addition to fines, the violation of any provision of this
section shall subject the permittee to revocation of the sidewalk café permit
by the mayor.
      13.   Class M Brew Pub License: The fee for a Class M license shall be
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). A Class M license authorizes:
         a.   The manufacture of up to one hundred fifty five thousand
(155,000) gallons of beer per year on the premises specified in the license;
         b.   Make sales of the beer manufactured on the premises to importing
distributors, distributors and nonlicensees for use and consumption on or off
premises;
         c.   Store beer on the premises;
         d.   Sell and offer for sale at retail from the licensed premises for
off-premises consumption no more than one hundred fifty five thousand (155,000)
gallons per year so long as such sales are only made in person;
         e.   Sell and offer for sale at retail for use and consumption on the
premises any form of alcoholic liquor purchased from a licensed distributor or
importing distributor; and
         f.   With the prior approval of the liquor commissioner, annually
transfer no more than 155,000 gallons of beer manufactured on the premises to a
licensed brew pub wholly owned and operated by the same licensee.
   B.   All class A, B, C, D, E, P, R, and M licensees must be in a business
that actively utilizes the license. The mayor may require a licensee provide to
the mayor such sales records as the mayor deems necessary to determine the
nature of the utilization of a license. If the mayor determines that a license
is not being actively utilized, he or she may revoke the license and demand its
surrender.
   C.   All premises, whether wholesale or retail, and licensed under class A,
B, C, D, E, P, R, or M shall be kept in a sanitary condition and shall be open
to inspection by the health officer, chief of police and any other authorized
official of the city.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-8: TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEES:
Each license issued under this chapter shall terminate at midnight on the April
30 following the date of issuance. If an application is made for the issuance
of a license after April 30, but prior to November 1, the fee to be paid shall
be the same as if the license is issued May 1. If an application is made for
the issuance of a license November 1 or thereafter, only half of the annual fee
shall be paid.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   The council shall have the right and power to limit the number of
licenses of each class to be issued within the corporate limits of the city and
also may limit the number of each class in any locality or section or portion
of the city in accordance with the public interest. Pursuant to the limitation
set forth in this subsection, the number of licenses to be issued under the
classifications set forth in this chapter shall be:
Class A, retail license                      No more than 25
Class B, beer and wine license               No more than 15
Class C, package liquor store license        No more than 11
Class D, club license                        No limit
Class E, banquet hall license                No more than 5
Class F, unenclosed premises license         No limit
Class G, special use license                 No limit
Class P, video gaming parlor license         No more than 4
Class G, City event and festivals license    No limit
Class R, restaurant license                  No more than 25
Class S, special event license (non-profits) No limit
Class T, temporary license                   No limit
Class M brew pub license                     Not more than 3
 
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, no
license permitting consumption of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises
shall be issued to any individual or other legal entity which is not
concurrently engaged in the business or occupation of a tavern, bar, pub,
banquet hall, motel, hotel, restaurant or club.
(1989 Code § 7-334) (Ord. O-14-10-01-10, 10-20-2014; Ord. O-15-09-01-51, 9-21-
2015, Ord. O-17-016, 3-6-2017; Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person licensed under this chapter shall immediately post and keep posted
while in force, in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, the license so
issued. Whenever such license shall be lost or destroyed, a duplicate in lieu
thereof shall be issued by the city clerk upon payment of a fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00).
3-1-11: NATURE OF LICENSE; TRANSFER:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good until midnight on April 30 following its issuance, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter or unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter,
and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. Such
license shall not descend by the laws of the state or intestate devolution, but
it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under order
of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period
in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in
accordance with the provisions of this section with regard to licenses
terminated upon the death of the holder. A license may not be transferred by a
licensee to another party. Whenever a license issued under this chapter is
surrendered or otherwise returned to the city by the licensee for any reason,
the license shall be cancelled and the number of licenses available in that
classification pursuant to subsection
3-1-9A, shall be restored by one license.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-12: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Applications for the renewal of liquor licenses shall be filed with the
city clerk on or before the last Monday in March each year. The city clerk will
keep a document of all renewals together with the location of the place of
business of each applicant, and the amount of license fees payable upon the
renewal of such licenses, and whether or not any written complaint has been
filed as to the manner in which any applicant for such renewal of a license has
carried on the business authorized thereby.
   B.   All applications for renewals of licenses issued pursuant to this
article shall be referred by the clerk to the mayor, as in the case of
applications for original licenses, and procedure for renewal thereof shall be
as in the case of the applications for original licenses.
   C.   Any licensee under this article may renew his or her license at the
expiration thereof, provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license
and the premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose; and provided further that the renewal privilege provided in this
section shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case
prevent the city council from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued
within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-13: BASSETT TRAINING REQUIRED:
   A.   For all licenses effective on or after May 1, 2002, the original or
renewal application shall be accompanied by proof of completion of the state
certified beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and training program
(BASSET), as hereinafter required by this section. All BASSET training
certification is valid for three (3) years from the time of successful
completion of the program.
   B.   A minimum of two (2) employees or all employees, whichever is less,
must be BASSET certified. BASSET certified employees will be considered
supervisors in overseeing the serving and sales of alcoholic beverages. It is
recommended, but not required, that a licensee train and/or certify as many
employees as possible in the techniques of alcohol management (TAM) program.
   C.   The licensee shall provide documentation showing that BASSET
information was provided to all employees by the BASSET trained employees or
other means including, but not limited to, identification check procedures and
understanding symptoms of intoxication.
   D.   A photocopy of the certificates of completion of the BASSET program and
documentation listed above will be on file with the city police department
coordinator and maintained on the premises of the licensee.
   E.   BASSET completion cards are to be carried on the person certified or
exhibited in the establishment when requested by the a uniformed city police
officer or other authority of the liquor control commissioner. Every employee
who has successfully completed the BASSET training program shall have his or
her BASSET completion certificate in his or her possession at all times when
selling or serving alcoholic liquor within the city. Said employee shall
display his or her BASSET certification card upon demand made by a uniformed
city police officer or other authority of the liquor control commissioner.
   F.   The liquor control commissioner may, in his or her sole discretion,
extend the time for the completion of the training for renewal of license only
for an additional ninety (90) days after renewal. Said extension shall be given
on a case by case basis upon a showing of good cause. A request for such an
extension shall be in writing and shall be presented to the liquor control
commissioner at least thirty (30) days prior to said license renewal.
   G.   Any organization and/or club that requests a temporary or special
permit or license for selling or serving alcoholic liquor shall abide by the
guidelines as other liquor license holders.
(1989 Code § 7-331) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-14: KEG REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No licensee shall sell alcoholic liquor in a keg without first having
obtained the signature of the purchaser on an adult responsibility form
provided by the city. The licensee shall retain one copy of the form and
provide one (1) copy of the form to the purchaser. The licensee shall retain
copies of all such forms for a period of not more than one year from the date
of sale, and will be able to produce any or all forms for inspection by the
liquor control commissioner, his or her designee, or police officers.
   B.   Any person who purchases alcoholic liquor in a keg from a licensee in
the city must sign an adult responsibility form provided by the licensee/seller
at the time and point of sale. The form shall contain the following:
      1.   The licensee’s name, address and phone number;
      2.   The purchaser’s name, address and phone number;
      3.   The driver’s license number or other identification used by the
licensee to identify the purchaser;
      4.   The location where the keg is to be used;
      5.   The date and signature of the purchaser; and
      6.   The following statement:
As purchaser of keg(s) of alcohol, I understand, that I am responsible for the
proper use of the contents of the keg.
I understand that the legal drinking age in Princeton is 21 and that the
contents of the keg will not be furnished to any person under the age of 21.
I understand that I am required to keep a copy of this adult responsibility
form with the keg at all times and to provide a copy to the police upon
request.
I understand that if I do not produce a copy of this form when requested by
police, or if the contents of the keg(s) is sold or furnished to a minor, I
will be held to have violated a city ordinance.
   C.   Any person who purchases alcoholic liquor in a keg(s) in another
jurisdiction other than the city shall sign an adult responsibility form as
required in that jurisdiction.
   D.   Any person in possession of a keg(s) containing alcoholic liquor shall
keep any required adult responsibility form(s) in the same location as the keg
at all times and shall have the form readily available for inspection until the
keg(s) is returned to the licensee.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person or licensed liquor retailer to
possess a keg(s) containing alcohol in the city in a manner other than as
provided by this section.
   F.   Presumptions are as follows:
      1.   If a keg(s) is found to be on any residential premises, and no adult
responsibility form is produced, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any resident of the building or dwelling unit in which the keg(s) is found is
in possession of the keg(s) in violation of this section. A person so charged
shall have the burden of proving that he or she did not have unlawful
possession of the keg(s).
      2.   If any keg(s) is used in the unlawful sale of alcohol, there shall
be a rebuttable presumption that the person signing the adult responsibility
form is responsible for the unlawful sale of alcohol. The city shall have the
burden of proving that the keg(s) was used in the unlawful sale of alcohol and
the defendant was the person signing the adult responsibility form. The
defendant shall have the burden of proving that he or she had no knowledge of
the unlawful sale of alcohol and took reasonable means to prevent the unlawful
sale of alcohol.
      3.   If any keg(s) is used in the unlawful furnishing of alcohol to a
minor, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the person signing the
adult responsibility form is responsible for the unlawful furnishing of alcohol
to a minor. The city shall have the burden of proving that the keg(s) was used
in the unlawful furnishing of alcohol to a minor and the defendant was the
person signing that adult responsibility form. The defendant shall have the
burden to prove that he or she had no knowledge of the unlawful furnishing of
alcohol and took reasonable means to prevent the unlawful furnishing of
alcohol.
      4.   No person shall transport alcoholic liquor stored in a keg(s) on any
public street between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. and five o’clock
(5:00) a.m. unless such person holds a distributor’s license from the state. No
license holder shall sell a keg(s) after ten o’clock (10:00) p.m.
      5.   Any person violating any provisions of this section, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day
upon which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense.
(1989 Code § 7-348) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-15: LOCATION:
   A.   Near Certain Facilities:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, other than an
institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station,
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
the church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100')
since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the
distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of
any building used for worship services or educational programs and not to
property boundaries.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
         a.   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of
food where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the
applicant is a completely new owner of the restaurant;
         b.   The immediate prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located and operated the premises as a restaurant and held a
valid retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant
for at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change of
ownership; and
         c.   The restaurant is located seventy five (75) or more feet from a
school.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to
a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
   B.   Compliance With Land Development Code: Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to permit the sale of alcoholic liquors in any place
where the conduct of such business is prohibited under the terms of the city
land development code.
(1989 Code § 7-313)
   C.   Change Of Location:
      1.   A class A, B, C, D, E, F, G, P or R license, shall permit the sale
of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license. Once a license has been granted for a particular premises, the local
liquor control commissioner, upon application by the licensee, may endorse upon
the license permission to abandon the premises therein described and to remove
the license to another premises approved by him or her and described in the
endorsement. The application for transfer shall be in writing under oath and
shall fully describe the premises. The reasons for transfer shall be given and
it shall be shown that the new premises comply in all respects with the
requirements of this chapter and the statutes of the state.
      2.   If a licensee under this chapter does not use his or her license to
actively operate an establishment for the sale of alcoholic liquor for a period
of ninety (90) consecutive days, the mayor shall revoke the license and require
its immediate surrender. The licensee shall not be entitled to a refund of any
portion of the license fee.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-16: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Conditions: All premises licensed under this chapter shall be
kept in a sanitary condition and shall be open to inspection by a health
officer or by any official or employee authorized by the mayor.
(1989 Code § 7-303)
   B.   Access To Dwellings/Lodging: Except in the case of clubs, hotels or
motels, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any premises which has
any access which leads from such premises to any other portion of the same
building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and which is
permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public. This subsection
shall not prevent any connection between such premises and such other portion
of the building or structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her
family and personal guests.
(1989 Code § 7-301)
   C.   View Of Premises:
      1.   In premises in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors in such licensed
premises, nor inside such premises, which shall prevent at any time a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road, or
sidewalk.
      2.   All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the
premises shall be continually lighted during business hours by natural or
artificial white lights so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible.
(1989 Code § 7-308) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-17: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; PRESENCE ON PREMISES AFTER HOURS:
   A.   Licensees may sell alcoholic liquors on any day of the week as follows:
Monday through Friday inclusive, except between the hours of one o’clock (1:00)
a.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m.; on Saturday, except between the hours of
two o’clock (2:00) a.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m.; and on Sunday, except
between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) a.m. and eleven o’clock (11:00) a.m.
Restaurants that have a liquor license and fifty percent (50%) or more of their
gross receipts come from food sales may sell alcoholic liquors on any day of
the week as follows: Monday through Friday inclusive, except between the hours
of one o’clock (1:00) a.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m.; on Saturday and
Sunday, except between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) a.m. and seven o’clock
(7:00) a.m.
   B.   The premises of all licensees shall be closed and vacated within thirty
(30) minutes after the prohibited time for the sale of alcoholic liquors.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep open for business, except
as provided in this section, or to admit the public to any place in which
alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours which the sale of such
liquor is prohibited; except that restaurants, clubs, and hotels may be kept
open during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold or consumed by the
public during such hours.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-18: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to sell alcoholic liquor or beer in packages for
removal from the premises or for consumption on the premises of any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale of service or
commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years for the sale of beer or alcoholic liquor in a
licensed premises where the principal business is the sale of beer or alcoholic
liquor.
(1989 Code § 7-306) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-19: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; CONDUCT ON PREMISES:
   A.   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the
holder of a license issued pursuant to this chapter to sell, deliver or give
any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person except as provided in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1.
(1989 Code § 7-309)
   B.   Conduct On Premises: Any licensee or other person in charge of the
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall immediately notify the
Princeton police department of any disturbance, fight, or other disorderly or
tumultuous conduct, or of any other act or omission occurring on the licensed
premises which violates this chapter or any other provision of this code or
state law. For purposes of this section, the licensed premise includes the
parking lot and other exterior areas of the premises. Any person engaging in
conduct required to be reported under this section shall be deemed guilty of
violating this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-311) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-20: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Purchase, Acceptance Or Possession By:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place
in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(1989 Code § 7-304)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase or accept
a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
(1989 Code § 7-305)
   B.   Sales, Providing To: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give,
or deliver alcoholic liquor to persons under the age of twenty one (21) years,
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(1989 Code § 7-304)
   C.   Identification Requirements And Restrictions; False Identification:
      1.   Identification Required:
         a.   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have
reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the nonage of the prospective recipient, they shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification containing proof of age, issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof.
(1989 Code § 7-305)
         b.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee or his or her agent or employee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21)
years.
      2.   Signs Posted: In every tavern or other place in the city where
alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent
place a printed card which shall be supplied by the city clerk and which shall
read substantially as follows:
Warning to persons under the age of twenty one (21) years: You are subject to a
minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) under the ordinances of the city if you purchase
alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor, or be present in or loiter in any tavern or place
where alcoholic liquor is sold, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
Any person who violates the provisions of such card shall be subject to the
penalty provided in this subsection.
      3.   False Identification:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any premises licensed under this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-304)
         b.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card,
use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card or obtain an identification card by means of false
information for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor from
any premises licensed under this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-305)
         c.   Presence On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee under
this chapter, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in any room or
compartment adjoining, adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such
licensed premises is located; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to
a person who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any
licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale of service
or commodities other than alcoholic liquor. In addition to all other fines and
penalties, the mayor may revoke the retail liquor dealer’s license for any
violation of this subsection.
         d.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for
any parent or guardian to permit any child of whom he or she is the parent or
guardian to violate any provision of this section.
(1989 Code § 7-304)
         e.   Violations Prohibited: No person shall purchase, accept delivery
or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
(1989 Code § 7-305)
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-21: INVESTIGATIONS; REJECTION; APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
The mayor shall investigate the statements in each application for a license
under this chapter, and within 30 days after such application has been made to
the city clerk, the mayor shall either approve or reject such application. If
the mayor approves such application and grants such license applied for, the
clerk shall issue such license to such applicant upon the payment in advance of
the license fee required.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-22: RECORD OF ISSUED AND REVOKED LICENSES:
The mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses
under this chapter issued by him or her; and shall furnish the city clerk, city
treasurer and chief of police with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new
license or the revocation of any existing license, the mayor shall notify each
of such officers thereof within one week of such action.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-23: INSPECTIONS:
To the extent authorized by law, the local liquor control commissioner may
enter or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any time upon any
premises licensed under this chapter to determine whether any of the provisions
of the liquor control act (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.), any rules or regulations
adopted by the Illinois liquor control commission, or any provision of this
chapter have been or are being violated and, at such time, to examine the
premises of such licensee in connection therewith.
(1989 Code § 7302) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-24: EMERGENCY CLOSURE OF BUSINESS:
In all cases where, in the opinion of the mayor, the public peace is likely to
be endangered by the keeping open of premises licensed under this chapter, the
mayor may issue his or her proclamation, under the seal of the city, commanding
and enjoining all persons licensed hereunder and their servants and agents to
close their shops and places and to sell, give away or suffer to be drawn no
alcoholic liquors in or about their premises during the time mentioned in such
proclamation.
(1989 Code § 7-312)
3-1-25: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this article may be suspended or revoked by the mayor,
as well as be subject to a fine of not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) imposed by the mayor for any one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Engaging in, or permitting, any violation of the liquor laws of the
state of Illinois or any of the provisions of this chapter, or any violation of
any state or municipal tax law or ordinance, including the failure to pay all
or part of any such tax.
   B.   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in the
application for a license.
   C.   Permitting any illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon licensed
premises.
   D.   Delinquency of thirty (30) days or more in the payment of any amount
due the city of Princeton; however, such delinquency shall not subject the
licensee to the fine as hereinabove provided.
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-26: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No gambling device of any kind shall be kept or used for the purpose of
gambling in any establishment or premises licensed under this chapter;
provided, however, this prohibition shall not apply to establishments with
video gaming terminals licensed under the Illinois video gaming act (230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.).
(Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
3-1-27: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any
provision of this chapter, in addition to the revocation or suspension of
license held hereunder, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (1989 Code § 7-297) (Ord. O-19-011, 6-17-2019)
CHAPTER 2: AMUSEMENTS
Section
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application For License; Bond Requirements; Issuance Of License
3-2-3: License Fees
3-2-4: Contents Of License; Expiration; Nontransferability; Proration Of Fee
3-2-5: Posting License
3-2-6: Use By Minors
3-2-7: Revocation Of License
3-2-8: Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall have, keep or conduct for profit within the city any billiard,
pool, snooker or other like table or any bowling or pin and ball alley or any
nine (9) or ten (10) pin alley or any shooting gallery without first obtaining
a license therefor as provided in this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-46)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; BOND REQUIREMENTS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any person desiring to keep or conduct any billiard, pool, snooker, or
other like table or any bowling or pin and ball alley or shooting gallery for
profit in the city, and desiring to be licensed under the provisions of this
chapter shall make written application for such license to the city clerk,
setting forth in such application the following information:
      1.   The full name, age and address of the applicant, and if the
applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company, the name,
age and address of each of its officers and directors, partners or members, as
applicable.
      2.   The location or place at or in which such billiard, pool, snooker,
or other like table or bowling or ball and pin alley or shooting gallery is to
be kept, used, conducted or operated.
      3.   The number of billiard, pool, snooker, or other like tables, or
bowling or ball and pin lanes or alleys, or shooting galleries to be conducted
within the licensed premises.
      4.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   B.   Each applicant shall execute and present with such written application
a bond in the penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), payable to the city,
with at least two (2) good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the city
clerk, with the conditions therein written that the person so making
application shall faithfully keep and observe all of the provisions of this
code relating to the licensing and keeping for public use and hire of such
billiard, pool, snooker, and other like tables, bowling or ball and pin alleys
or shooting galleries, as the case may be, which bond shall state upon its face
that it shall be in force during the entire continuance of the license which
may be issued pursuant thereto.
   C.   Upon the presenting of such written application and bond, and upon
payment by such applicant to the city treasurer of a license fee in the amount
specified in this chapter, the city clerk shall issue or cause to be issued to
such applicant a license signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk
authorizing the keeping, conducting or operating of such billiard, pool,
snooker, or like table, or tables, or such bowling or pin and ball alley or
alleys, or such shooting gallery or galleries, as the case may be, at the place
described in the application for and during the term of the license.
(1989 Code § 7-47)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The license fees for operating or running billiard
tables, pool tables, snooker tables, or like tables; for keeping, operating or
running a bowling alley or ball and pin alley; and for keeping, operating or
running a shooting gallery shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 7-48; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All license fees shall be payable annually in advance.
(1989 Code § 7-48)
3-2-4: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; NONTRANSFERABILITY; PRORATION OF FEE:
All licenses issued in pursuance of this chapter shall bear the date of the
issuance thereof, shall state the time for which the same are granted and shall
expire on April 30 following the date of their issuance, unless sooner
determined by their own limitations or by revocation or surrender as in this
chapter provided, and no such license shall be transferable. If such
application is made more than six (6) months prior to the next April 30, the
full license fee shall be charged for each such pool, billiard, snooker or
other table, each such bowling or pin and ball alley and each such shooting
gallery. If less than six (6) months remains until the next April 30, a license
fee of one-half (1/2) the amount specified in this chapter shall be charged for
each billiard, pool, snooker, or other like table or bowling or pin and ball
alley or shooting gallery, as the case may be, for such portion of the current
license year as shall remain unexpired.
(1989 Code § 7-49)
3-2-5: POSTING LICENSE:
All licenses issued in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall be
kept posted, by the person or persons holding the same, in a conspicuous place
in the room or rooms or place or places where the tables, alleys or galleries
so licensed shall be kept or let for use or hire. Any failure or neglect to
comply with the provisions of this section shall be sufficient cause for the
revocation of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-50)
3-2-6: USE BY MINORS:
No person who keeps, conducts or operates any billiard, pool, snooker, or other
like table or tables for profit or who keeps, conducts or operates any room or
rooms wherein is kept, used or operated for profit any of the above mentioned
billiard, pool, snooker, or other like table or tables shall permit or allow
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to use any such table or tables
for any purpose whatsoever or to remain in or frequent any such room or rooms,
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(1989 Code § 7-27)
3-2-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked by the mayor whenever it
shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the council, after reasonable
hearing, that the person so licensed has violated any provision of this code
relating to the licensing or the keeping or letting for public use and hire of
such tables, alleys or galleries, as the case may be, or any condition of the
bond given by him or her pursuant to section
3-2-2 of this chapter. The revocation shall take effect upon the delivery to
the person licensed, or living at the room or rooms or place or places where
such tables, alleys or galleries shall be kept or let for use or hire, a
written notice thereof, signed by the city clerk and under the seal of the
city, and in case any license is revoked, all payments made therefor shall be
forfeited to the city.
(1989 Code § 7-51)
3-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall, within the corporate limits of the city, keep or let for
public use or hire any billiard, pool, snooker, or other like table, bowling
alley, ball alley, nine (9) or ten (10) pin alley, or pin and ball alley of any
kind, or shooting gallery without a license so to do, granted and issued in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or who shall violate any condition of any bond
given by such person in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(1989 Code § 7-26)
ARTICLE 2A: COIN OPERATED DEVICES
Section
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: License Required
3-2A-3: License Fees
3-2A-4: Licensing Procedure
3-2A-5: Display Of Notice
3-2A-6: Restrictions On License
3-2A-7: Inspections
3-2A-8: Violations; Penalties
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
BUSINESS: Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity doing business
anywhere in the city.
COIN OPERATED DEVICE:
   A.   Any device operated by means of the insertion of coin, token or similar
object for the purpose of amusement or skill, the purchase of any commodity of
merchandise, or the storage of goods or other service for which a fee is
charged, and which does not provide for any tangible payoff, reward, or return
of token.
   B.   The term shall also include any noncoin operated device where the
operators or users of the noncoin operated device pay or give the operator or
proprietor any consideration of the privilege of using the noncoin operated
device for amusement purposes; provided, that the noncoin operated device
otherwise meets this definition save for the insertion of coin, token or
similar object.
   C.   The term does not include coin operated devices designed for gambling
including video gaming terminals authorized pursuant to the video gaming act,
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and specifically excludes coin
operated devices used for the laundering and drying of clothes or the
dispensing of vehicle fuel or use of air pumps or vacuums at a fueling station.
   D.   The term does not include any billiard, pool, , snooker or other like
table or any bowling or pin and ball alley or any nine (9) or ten (10) pin
alley or any shooting gallery subject to regulation under chapter 2 of this
title.
LICENSE: The license required by this chapter for a coin operated device.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets up
for the operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of
operation by another, any device as herein defined, whether such setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
PROPRIETOR: Any individual, firm, corporation or other business that owns the
establishment where the coin operated device is located.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, or corporation shall install, maintain, operate, use or permit
to be used any coin operated device in the city without first having obtained a
license from the city clerk.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Established: The various kinds of coin operated devices for which a
license shall be required, and the annual license fee for such devices, shall
be as established in the city fee schedule.
   B.   Payment Of Fees: The license fee shall be payable annually in advance;
provided, that where the application is made after the expiration of any
portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder thereof
upon payment of a proportionate part of the annual fee.
   C.   Exemptions From Fees: No license fee shall be charged to any
governmental entity that applies for a coin operated device license(s);
however, all other provisions relative to the licensing process as set forth in
this chapter shall be applicable to governmental entities.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-4: LICENSING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for a license hereunder shall be filed in writing with
the city clerk, on a form to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm,
corporation, partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and
their addresses.
         b.   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices
are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on
at such place.
         c.   The trade name and general description of the device or devices
to be licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and the
number of devices to be licensed.
         d.   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices if
other than the proprietor.
         e.   All prior criminal convictions of the applicant, if any.
      2.   The proper license fee and investigation fee shall accompany the
application.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to sign or present any application for
a license knowing it to contain any false statement.
      4.   Licenses are not transferable without an application and approval by
the city.
   B.   Investigations And Inspections:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
provide a copy of the application and refer the matter to the chief of police
for an investigation of the character of the individuals whose names and
addresses are required to be furnished by subsection A of this section and to
determine whether the proposed business will violate any provision of the land
development code or the building code of the city.
      2.   The chief of police shall report within two (2) weeks of receipt of
a complete application.
      3.   The application, together with the report of the chief of police,
shall be delivered to the city clerk for action.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: If it appears that the applicant
complies with all applicable laws and ordinances, the license application shall
be approved and the license shall be issued by the city manager. If the license
is denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Evidence Of Ownership: Evidence of ownership must be filed with the
city clerk. Any proprietor who owns such device or devices shall file with the
city clerk evidence of such ownership prior to the issuance of a license, and
any proprietor purchasing a device or devices shall file with the city clerk
evidence of ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing said device or
devices for use or play.
   E.   Expiration, Posting, Nontransferability Of License: All licenses under
this chapter shall expire on April 30 following their issuance. The license
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the licensee.
Such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and, in the case of a
proprietor, shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
A licensee may apply for a transfer of a license for a replacement device if
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The original device is permanently removed from display for public
patronage and is made unavailable for operation by patrons; and
      2.   A transfer fee as established in the city fee schedule is paid to
the city.
   F.   No Refunds Of Fees: Except as provided in subsection C of this section,
in no case shall any portion of the license fee be refunded to the licensee.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-5: DISPLAY OF NOTICE:
Every coin operated device for which a license is issued pursuant to the terms
of this chapter shall bear and have attached thereto in a prominent place the
following notice:
This device is for amusement purposes only. The use of this device for gambling
purposes or other purposes which may be illegal shall be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-6: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
   A.   No license issued hereunder shall permit the operation of any coin
operated amusement device at any place or in any manner which will disturb the
peace or quiet of persons outside the licensed premises. It shall be unlawful
for a licensee to allow a degree of noise to develop which would cause a
disturbance to the adjacent or surrounding uses such that normal use of said
adjacent or surrounding uses would be damaged or unreasonably disturbed.
   B.   All coin operated devices must be kept in good repair and operating
condition.
   C.   No license issued hereunder shall permit the operation of any coin
operated amusement device unless the premises where the coin operated amusement
device(s) is located has a distinct and primary business use other than the
offering of coin operated amusement devices.
   D.   Any coin operated amusement device installed in the business
establishment for which a license is issued pursuant to the terms of this
chapter shall be located within the main business area of the establishment and
shall specifically not be located in any foyer, vestibule, entranceway or other
portion of the establishment appurtenant to the main business area.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-7: INSPECTIONS:
Any person, firm, corporation or association who files an application for a
coin operated amusement device, or renewal thereof, agrees to an inspection of
the premises to ascertain whether or not the device is in compliance with this
code.
(2017 Code)
3-2A-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a
nuisance.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The city shall have the right to
suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder or take such appropriate and
necessary action pursuant to this code as may be warranted for the violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or for any other ordinance or statutory
violations. Any licensee that has its license revoked or canceled under this
chapter shall not be eligible to apply for any other license under this chapter
for a period of one year.
(2017 Code)
   C.   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
ARTICLE 2B: VIDEO GAMING
Section
3-2B-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-2B-2: Definitions
3-2B-3: License
3-2B-4: License Application Requirements
3-2B-5: Application Filing; Renewals
3-2B-6: License Fees
3-2B-7: License Revocation Or Suspension
3-2B-8: Limitation On Number Of Video Gaming Licenses
3-2B-9: Limitation On Number Of Video Gaming Terminals On Premises
3-2B-10: Prohibition
3-2B-11: Exceptions
3-2B-12: Licensed Establishments
3-2B-13: Seizure Of Unauthorized Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds
3-2B-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaining as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The Illinois gaming board.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES: As defined in section 18b-l 01 of the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-101.
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any business licensed by the state of Illinois to have
or operate a video gaming device in the city of Princeton, including any
licensed fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those
terms are defined in the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/5.
LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT: The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT: The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   A facility:
   1.   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
   2.   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
   3.   That sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or biodiesel
fuel per month; and
   4.   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
   B.   The requirement of item A3 of this definition may be met by showing
that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 10,000 gallons per
month.
LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   A facility located within three road miles from a freeway interchange,
as measured in accordance with the department of transportation’s rules
regarding the criteria for the installation of business signs:
   1.   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
   2.   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor vehicles;
   3.   That sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel or biodiesel
fuel per month; and
   4.   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
   B.   The requirement of item A3 of this definition may be met by showing
that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 50,000 gallons per
month.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including
but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the
Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may
receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not
include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-3: LICENSE:
   A.   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the city of Princeton
without first having obtained a video gaming license from the city of
Princeton. The license provided for in this chapter shall permit a licensee to
operate video gaming terminals at the specified establishment.
   B.   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the city of
Princeton, nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video
gaming license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue
to be met:
   1.   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
state of Illinois permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
   2.   The establishment has been in operation at the location for at least
six (6) months at the time the application is filed;
   3.   The establishment must maintain customer seating outside of the gaming
area but within the premises at a ratio of at least five seats for each
permitted video gaming terminal;
   4.   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the city
of Princeton or state of Illinois;
   5.   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in section
3-2B-4 of this chapter and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling
offense, or crime of moral turpitude; and
   6.   The establishment is located outside of a residential zoning district.
   C.   Except for large truck stop establishments, to be eligible to have
video gaming at an establishment, the net terminal income generated at the
establishment from video gaming cannot exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
gross revenues generated.
   D.   Large truck stop and regular truck stop establishments do not need to
meet the requirements set forth in subsection C of this section.
   E.   A new establishment must meet the requirements of subsection B2 unless
the applicant is also a current majority owner of an existing business at
another location, that has been in operation for at least six (6) months, and
the business model for the new establishment is proposed to replicate the
existing business location and the applicant can provide satisfactory evidence
detailing that in the last twelve (12) month period video gaming net terminal
income at the other business location did not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
gross revenues.
   F.   The mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses. In the
event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any action taken by the
mayor, an appeal may be made directly to the city council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after written notice of the action from which an appeal is
made.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-4: LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The license applicant shall provide the following information to the city of
Princeton on a form provided by the city of Princeton:
   A.   The legal name of the establishment;
   B.   The business name of the establishment;
   C.   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   D.   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   E.   A floor plan, drawn to scale using a computer, detailing the overall
layout of the establishment, including the location and count of dining
seating, the location and count of video gaming terminals and seating for said
terminals, and other significant features of the establishment, including exit
locations, restrooms and other equipment. A high-resolution electronic copy of
the floor plan as well as a paper printed copy (no smaller than eleven inches
(11") by seventeen inches (17")) shall be submitted at the time of application;
hand-drawn floor plans and floor plans not including a scale will not be
accepted;
   F.   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place;
   G.   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   H.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   I.   A phone number for the establishment;
   J.   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   K.   The name and address of every person owning more than a five percent
(5%) share of the establishment;
   L.   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   M.   A copy of the establishment’s state of Illinois video gaming license;
   N.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or partnership,
a copy of the establishment’s state certificate of good standing;
   O.   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed six (6) for all
establishments);
   P.   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee or
bill due to the city of Princeton or state of Illinois;
   Q.   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance;
   R.   A statement that no manager or owner with more than five percent (5%)
interest in the establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling
offense or a crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment
cannot provide such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of
rehabilitation from the city of Princeton indicating that the individual who
would disqualify the establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has
been rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to violate the law. The city of
Princeton may consider the nature of the offense, the length of time since the
offense, the length of time since release from custody and other factors to
determine if the individual has been rehabilitated such that he or she is no
longer likely to commit another offense;
   S.   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior twelve (12) month period,
proof of the length of time the existing business has been operational and
proof of ownership verifying the applicant’s ownership rights;
   T.   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-5: APPLICATION FILING; RENEWALS:
   A.   Applications shall be processed by the city of Princeton city clerk on
a first come, first served basis. Every application shall be date and time
stamped upon filing. An application received in the mail shall be considered
filed on the date and time it is opened by the city of Princeton office of the
city clerk’s department.
   B.   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
section
3-2B-4. Renewal applications shall be due on or before April 1 each year,
unless that day falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be
received by the clerk on the following business day.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-6: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per terminal annually. The cost of this fee shall be
shared equally between the terminal operator and the applicable licensed
establishment.
   B.   The application fee is not subject to reimbursement or refund upon
denial of a license.
   C.   Said fees are not subject to proration or refund and are due prior to
issuance of the license.
   D.   All licenses required by this section shall be prominently displayed
next to the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-7: LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   The Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this division
within five (5) business days of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming
terminal. After a hearing presided over by the Mayor, the Mayor may order the
revocation of the license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and
the license shall thereupon be terminated. The licensee may appeal the
revocation as prescribed in section
3-2B-3F.
   B.   In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or registration
under this section, such person shall not be issued any license provided for in
this chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or any appeal
thereof.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-8: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING LICENSES:
There shall be no more than 25 establishments licensed to operate video gaming
terminals in the city of Princeton at any given time.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-9: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES:
There shall be no more than six (6) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any one location,
other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
There shall be no more than ten (10) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any licensed large
truck stop establishment.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-10: PROHIBITION:
Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the city of Princeton or for
any person or entity which owns, occupies or controls an establishment within
the city of Princeton to knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-11: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-12: LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS:
Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of the city
of Princeton that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
section shall be subject to having his, her or its license immediately revoked
for a period of sixty (60) days. Any business, liquor or food licensee within
the corporate limits of the city of Princeton that allows gambling to occur on
premises in violation of this Article a second time shall have his, her or its
license permanently revoked and, thereafter, barred from obtaining any
business, liquor or food license within the city of Princeton.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
3-2B-13: SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS:
Any gambling device which is not authorized by this chapter shall be subject to
immediate seizure and confiscation by the city of Princeton. Any money or other
thing of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this
chapter shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such
gambling devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance
with the law.
(Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
CHAPTER 3: SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: Bond Requirements
3-3-5: License Fee
3-3-6: Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-7: Issuance Of License
3-3-8: Posting License
3-3-9: Nontransferability Of License Or Stock
3-3-10: Change Of Location
3-3-11: Closing Hours
3-3-12: Prohibited Purchases And Sales
3-3-13: Waiting Period On Purchases
3-3-14: Records And Reports
3-3-15: Inspections And Seizures
3-3-16: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-3-17: Exemptions From Provisions
3-3-18: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, a “secondhand dealer” is a person, partnership,
corporation, association, joint venture, trustee, court appointed
representative or agent thereof that operates a business for profit which buys,
sells, possesses on consignment for sale or trades jewelry, stamps, coins,
electronic equipment or devices, or any precious metals which may have been
previously owned by a consumer; or which derives more than thirty five percent
(35%) of its gross receipts from the sale, consignment for sale, pledge or
trade of any goods, wares or merchandise which have previously been owned by a
consumer including, but not limited to, furniture, appliances, clothing,
automobile accessories, books or metals, whether in bulk or manufactured state.
The term “secondhand dealer” shall include businesses commonly known as
pawnbrokers, swapshop operators, stamp dealers, coin dealers and jewelers who
purchase and resell items from persons other than dealers and suppliers. The
fact that any business does any of the following acts shall be prima facie
proof that it is a secondhand dealership:
   A.   Advertises in any fashion that it buys or sells secondhand or used
items. Such advertisements shall include, but not be limited to, media
advertisements, telephone listings, and signs, whether on the exterior or
interior of the business.
   B.   Devotes a significant segment or section of the business premises to
the purchase or sale of secondhand or used items.
(1989 Code § 7-236)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, either as owner, manager, lessee, officer or agent, or in any other
capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated a secondhand dealership
without first having obtained a license from the city to do so.
(1989 Code § 7-266)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license required by section
3-3-2 of this chapter shall be made in writing to the city clerk and shall set
forth the following:
   A.   The name of the individual, partnership, corporation or association
applying for a license.
   B.   The residence address, phone number, date of birth and driver’s license
number of the applicant or partners; or if a corporation or association, the
residences, phone numbers and drivers’ license numbers of the officers and all
shareholders owning more than five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of
stock.
   C.   The location for which the license is required.
   D.   Whether the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders
have been convicted of any criminal offense or ordinance violation (other than
petty traffic or parking offenses) in any jurisdiction and, if so, a list of
such convictions with date and prosecuting jurisdiction.
   E.   Whether the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders
have held a license or had an interest in a license issued by the city or any
other jurisdiction regulating the purchase or sale of secondhand property
revoked for cause and, if so, list the date of revocation and jurisdiction.
(1989 Code § 7-267)
3-3-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Every applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the city a
surety bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) approved by
the city attorney, or corporate surety licensed with the state, with the city
as obligee, conditioned for the faithful and due performance of the provisions
of this chapter and the laws of the state concerning the operation of the
licensed business, and the payment of all fines and penalties by reason of the
violation thereof.
(1989 Code § 7-269)
3-3-5: LICENSE FEE:
The applicant for a license under this chapter shall pay the city treasurer,
prior to filing an application, a license fee as provided in the city fee
schedule. Should the license be denied, the license fee shall be refunded to
the applicant.
(1989 Code § 7-268)
3-3-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this chapter, the city clerk
shall cause a copy thereof to be sent to the police department and the zoning
administrator, and they shall report back to the city clerk in twenty one (21)
days whether the application is in accordance with applicable city codes.
(1989 Code § 7-270)
3-3-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of the reports referred to in section
3-3-6 of this chapter, the city clerk shall issue the license requested unless
he or she shall find that:
   A.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   B.   The location requested is not in a permanent structure;
   C.   The applicant plans to operate as an itinerant merchant, as that term
is defined in chapter 8 of this title;
   D.   The applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders, have been
convicted of or have pled guilty to any offense related to theft, burglary, or
purchasing or receiving stolen items under the laws of this state, the city or
any other jurisdiction within the past ten (10) years, or have forfeited a bond
to appear in court to answer for charges for such offenses during such time;
   E.   The location requested and the structure to be used would not comply
with all applicable laws, including the city land development code:
   F.   The applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders, have held
a license or had an interest in a license issued by the city or any other
jurisdiction regulating the purchase or sale of secondhand property which was
revoked for cause; or
   G.   The applicant, its partners, officers of listed shareholders, have
knowingly furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant
information on any application for a license required by section
3-3-2 of this chapter or any investigation into any application.
(1989 Code § 7-271)
3-3-8: POSTING LICENSE:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall, at all times
during the period for which it is effective, be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the principal entrance to the premises for which the license is
issued.
(1989 Code § 7-272)
3-3-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE OR STOCK:
   A.   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred to any other
person.
   B.   No corporate licensee shall permit any transfer of its stock which
would vest in aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock outstanding in
such corporation in any shareholder unless such shareholder has been certified
by the city clerk as meeting the requirements of section
3-3-7 of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 7-274)
3-3-10: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
No licensee under this chapter shall carry on any business required to be
licensed under this chapter except at the location designated on the license.
Should the licensee wish to change the location, an application, in writing,
shall be made to the city clerk for such change. The city clerk shall approve
the change of location unless the new location would be contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or any of the ordinances of the city.
(1989 Code § 7-239)
3-3-11: CLOSING HOURS:
No licensee under this chapter shall purchase any goods, wares, articles or
things whatsoever from any person between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00)
p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. the following day.
(1989 Code § 7-240)
3-3-12: PROHIBITED PURCHASES AND SALES:
   A.   Prohibited Purchases: No licensee under this chapter shall purchase or
accept any goods, wares, articles or things under any of the following
circumstances:
      1.   Where the seller is less than the age of eighteen (18) without the
written consent of his or her parents or guardians.
      2.   Where the seller is intoxicated.
      3.   Where the seller fails to present two (2) forms of identification of
which at least one contains the seller’s full legal name, date of birth, a
photograph or full physical description, and an identification number.
      4.   Where the article to be purchased had an original manufacturer’s
serial number at the time it was new but no longer legibly exhibits such
number.
(1989 Code § 7-241)
   B.   Weapons: No licensee under this chapter shall deal in, buy, sell, or
display in his or her shop any pistol, revolver, derringer, bowie knife, dagger
or other deadly weapon of like character capable of being secreted upon the
person unless such licensee shall also possess a valid and current license for
such purpose as required by law.
(1989 Code § 7-242)
3-3-13: WAITING PERIOD ON PURCHASES:
The licensee shall keep all property purchased or received from an individual
available for inspection for a period of ten (10) days before it is sold or
traded.
(1989 Code § 7-246)
3-3-14: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Record Of Purchases: Every licensee under this chapter shall keep at
the licensed location a register on multicopy forms provided by the chief of
police in which shall be entered the following information: a succinct and
accurate description of all property taken, purchased or received in the course
of the business licensed under this chapter, including any number or
inscription that may be in or on such property; the full legal name of the
person from whom the property is received including full first name and middle
initial, if any; such person’s current residential address, date of birth and
physical description; the amount given or loaned to such person and the terms
thereof; the signature of the employee who received the property; and the
signed statement of the person from whom the property was obtained that he or
she is over eighteen (18) years of age and the legal owner of same, clear of
all attachments and with the legal right to sell. Entries made in the register
shall be printed or typed and shall be legible. All entries shall be made
immediately upon receipt or purchase of any property. The register shall be
open to inspection by any person during normal hours of operation.
(1989 Code § 7-243)
   B.   Daily Report To Chief Of Police; Exemptions:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every licensee under this chapter to have
available for delivery to the chief of police, or an officer designated by the
chief, every business day and before the hour of twelve o’clock (12:00) noon, a
legible and correct copy from the register of all personal property, or other
valuable things, received or deposited or purchased the preceding day in
whatever quantity received, including property purchased as secondhand
merchandise at wholesale, secondhand merchandise taken in for sale or possessed
on consignment for sale, and secondhand merchandise taken in for trade.
      2.   No person shall be required to furnish such description of any new
property purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers having an
established place of business. Such goods shall be accompanied by a bill of
sale or other evidence of open and legitimate purchase and shall be shown to
the chief of police and members of the police department when demanded.
(1989 Code § 7-244)
3-3-15: INSPECTIONS AND SEIZURES:
Every licensee under this chapter and every person employed by him or her in
the conduct of business shall admit to any and every part of the premises
designated in the license, during normal business hours, any law enforcement
officer of the city to examine any goods, articles, things, pledges, pawns,
books or other records on the premises dealing with the purchase or sale of
used property and to search for and to take into possession any article known
or for which he or she has reasonable grounds to believe to have been stolen.
Such law enforcement officer may make any such search or seizure as is provided
in this section, and property so seized shall be receipted for by such officer,
who shall adequately describe the seized property and sign the receipt. Should
the officer determine the property not to be stolen, he or she shall promptly
return same to the licensee.
(1989 Code § 7-245)
3-3-16: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued by the city for a secondhand dealer may be revoked
or suspended for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the mayor if he or
she shall find, after hearing, that:
      1.   The licensee, its officers, agents or employees, have violated any
of the provisions of this chapter, the laws of the state, or the ordinances of
the city in the operation of the business;
      2.   The licensee, partners, officers or shareholders have been convicted
of any offense set forth in section
3-3-7 of this chapter; or
      3.   The licensee, partners, officers or shareholders have knowingly
furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant information on
any application for a license required by section
3-3-2 of this chapter or any investigation into any application.
   B.   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of its agents, servants
and employees in the operation of the business. Prior to holding a hearing
concerning the question of whether a license shall be revoked or suspended, the
mayor shall give at least ten (10) days’ written notice to the licensee setting
forth the alleged violation specifically. The licensee may present evidence and
cross examine witnesses at such hearing.
(1989 Code § 7-273)
3-3-17: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Garage sales. As used in this chapter, a “garage sale” is defined as
the sale of used personal property by the lawful residents of residentially
zoned property, which garage sale is not conducted on a periodic or ongoing
basis. A garage sale shall be deemed to be periodic or ongoing if held by the
lawful resident of residentially zoned property more than five (5) days in any
consecutive ninety (90) day period.
   B.   Sales conducted by governmental, civic, patriotic, fraternal,
educational, religious or benevolent organizations which have been in active
and continuous existence for at least one year prior to the holding of the
sale, or which are incorporated as a not for profit corporation by the state.
   C.   Sales or purchases which are regulated by the licensing laws of the
state, including automobile dealers, used parts dealers and automotive parts
recyclers.
(1989 Code § 7-238)
3-3-18: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day
any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
(1989 Code § 7-237)
CHAPTER 4: TAXICABS
Section
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Ineligibility For License
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: License Fee; Display Of Tags, Stickers And Other Items; Additional
Taxicabs
3-4-6: Bond Or Insurance Required
3-4-7: Number Of Licenses
3-4-8: Vehicle Requirements
3-4-9: Transporting Passengers; Payment Of Fare
3-4-10: Drivers
3-4-11: Additional Prohibitions
3-4-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Appeals
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term “taxicab”, as used in this chapter, shall mean and include any vehicle
used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route.
(1989 Code § 7-76)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
taxicab in the city without first having secured a license for such taxicab.
(1989 Code § 7-77)
3-4-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license under this chapter shall be issued or held by any person who is not
a person of good character or who has been convicted of a felony; nor shall
such license be issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof
would be ineligible for a license under this section.
(1989 Code § 7-8)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the city clerk and
shall state thereon the name of the applicant, the intended place of business
and the number of taxicabs to be operated. If the applicant is a corporation,
the names and addresses of the president and secretary thereof shall be given.
(1989 Code § 7-77)
3-4-5: LICENSE FEE; DISPLAY OF TAGS, STICKERS AND OTHER ITEMS; ADDITIONAL
TAXICABS:
The annual fee per taxicab, payable in advance, for a license under this
chapter shall be as provided in the city fee schedule. Whenever the number of
taxicabs so operated shall be increased during the license year, the licensee
shall notify the city clerk of such change and shall pay the additional fee.
Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by ordinance, and
the city clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of taxicabs
covered. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a prominent place on each
taxicab while it is in use and may be transferred to any taxicab put into
service to replace one withdrawn from service. The licensee shall notify the
clerk of the motor number and state license number of the taxicab operated and
of the corresponding city tag or sticker number. In addition to such tag or
sticker, each taxicab shall have posted therein the driver’s picture, license,
registration, identification number and phone number to call if the driver is
operating the taxicab in a reckless manner. If the license hereunder is
suspended or revoked upon reissuance of the same, there shall be a fee per
taxicab as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 7-79)
3-4-6: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public liability
insurance policy as required by chapter 8 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625
ILCS 5/8-101 et seq.), and such bond or liability policy shall be filed with
the city clerk.
(1989 Code § 7-82)
3-4-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of licenses to be issued by the city clerk shall not exceed five
(5).
(1989 Code § 7-77)
3-4-8: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a state license duly
issued; and no taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with proper
brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, and windshield wiper
in good condition, and otherwise meets all requirements for equipment of
vehicles pursuant to chapter 12 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   B.   Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters
readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the licensee
operating it. If more than one taxicab is operated by a licensee, each taxicab
shall be designated by a different number, and such number also shall appear on
each side of the taxicab.
(1989 Code § 7-80)
   C.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police or his or her designee to
inspect every taxicab as often as may be necessary to determine that said
taxicab meets the provisions of this section. Said inspection shall be at the
cost of the licensee and shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 7-80)
3-4-9: TRANSPORTING PASSENGERS; PAYMENT OF FARE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as
passenger any person who seeks to use the taxicab, provided such person
conducts himself or herself in an orderly manner.
(1989 Code § 7-85)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a taxicab passenger to fail or refuse to pay
the lawful fare at the termination of the trip. The charge for the taxicab
service shall be as set by the taxicab service, which fare, or the formula for
determining such fare, must be disclosed to the passenger prior to the
commencement of the trip.
(1989 Code § 7-86)
3-4-10: DRIVERS:
   A.   Driver’s License Required: No person shall drive a taxicab, or be hired
or permitted to do so, unless he or she is duly licensed pursuant to the
Illinois vehicle code.
(1989 Code § 7-81)
   B.   Obedience To Traffic Laws: It shall be the duty of every driver of a
taxicab to obey all traffic rules established by statute or ordinance.
(1989 Code § 7-83)
   C.   Prohibited Conduct; Drug And Alcohol Testing:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while on duty to
consume any intoxicating liquor or controlled or intoxicating substance, to use
any profane or obscene language, to shout or call at prospective passengers, or
to disturb the peace in any way.
      2.   No person may drive a taxicab licensed hereunder unless he or she
first submits to a background check, alcohol test, five panel drug screen and
review of his or her driver’s abstract. If any of the foregoing are
unacceptable to the chief of police, the person shall not drive a taxicab
licensed hereunder.
      3.   Any person who drives a taxicab licensed hereunder is considered to
have consented to random alcohol and five (5) panel drug testing in the
discretion of the chief of police.
(1989 Code § 7-81)
3-4-11: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Smoking Within Vehicle: Smoking shall not be allowed by the driver or
passenger of any taxicab licensed hereunder.
(1989 Code § 7-80)
   B.   Unlawful Use Of Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the perpetration of a felony or a
misdemeanor.
(1989 Code § 7-84)
3-4-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS:
If any licensee hereunder or licensee’s driver fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the license may be suspended for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days or revoked by the chief of police. Notice of suspension
or revocation shall be delivered personally to the licensee with the date of
said suspension or revocation to be effective no sooner than five (5) days
after delivery of the notice. The licensee may appeal the suspension or
revocation to the mayor by written notice personally delivered to the mayor
within three (3) days of receipt of the notice of suspension or revocation. If
the licensee files such appeal, the suspension or revocation shall be stayed
pending determination of the appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the mayor
within five (5) business days of receipt of notice of appeal. The mayor may
uphold, vacate or amend the suspension or revocation.
(1989 Code § 7-87)
CHAPTER 5: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS
Section
3-5-1: State License Required
3-5-2: Use Of Plumber’s Name Or Information By Others Prohibited
3-5-3: Plumber Resisting Inspections Prohibited
3-5-1: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person desiring or intending to do plumbing work within the city,
connected or to be connected with the water supply or sewage system of the
city, shall, before the doing of any plumbing work, be a duly licensed plumber
under the Illinois plumbing license law (320 ILCS 225/0.01 et seq.); provided,
however, that nothing contained herein shall prohibit the owner or occupant of
a single family residence from doing plumbing work on their own residence.
(1989 Code § 7-101)
3-5-2: USE OF PLUMBER’S NAME OR INFORMATION BY OTHERS PROHIBITED:
No plumber shall allow his or her name to be used by any person, directly or
indirectly, either to obtain the permits required by this code or do any work
under his or her bond, license or permit.
(1989 Code § 7-115)
3-5-3: PLUMBERS RESISTING INSPECTIONS PROHIBITED:
Any person carrying on a plumbing business who shall interrupt or resist an
inspection of his or her work, done under the provisions of this code, shall be
liable to the forfeiture of his or her permit for the doing of plumbing work in
the city, and be fined for a violation of this chapter, as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code.
(1989 Code § 7-115)
CHAPTER 6: HOUSE MOVERS
Section
3-6-1: Moving Permit
3-6-2: Permit Fee
3-6-3: Application
3-6-4: Bond
3-6-5: Conditions Of Permit
3-6-6: Moving Operations
3-6-7: Penalty; Nuisance May Be Declared
3-6-1: MOVING PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to move, or to cause or permit to
be moved, any building or structure on, through, over, across, or along any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place within the city, without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the zoning administrator and paying
the requisite fees.
3-6-2: PERMIT FEE:
Each applicant for a permit under this chapter shall pay a fee of $500 for each
date or portion thereof that the moving activity described in such application
shall occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
Fees shall be paid to the zoning administrator at the same time as the
submission of an application for permit under this chapter.
3-6-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a permit to move any building or structure shall be made in
writing by the owner, owner’s agent, contractor or other person or entity who
will carry out the moving work, to the city zoning administrator, with a copy
to the director of public works and any utility company serving the premises.
Such application may be on forms provided by the zoning administrator, and
shall state the location and description of the building or structure to be
moved, the date when moving is to commence, the proposed route, and the number
of days that such building or structure shall occupy any portion of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place.
3-6-4: BOND:
   A.   Before any permit to move any building or structure shall be issued,
the person or entity in the work of moving the same shall post with the zoning
administrator a bond in cash or with good and sufficient sureties in an amount
equal to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), plus fifty cents ($.50) per one (1)
square foot of ground floor area of the building or structure described in the
application for a moving permit, conditioned, among other things, that the
person will pay any and all damages to any tree, pavement or sidewalk, or any
other property belonging to the city, whether the damage shall be inflicted by
such person or his or her agents, employees or workers. The bond shall be
conditioned also that the person will immediately pay any judgment that may be
obtained against the city as well as any costs the city may incur in
consequence of the granting of the license, and all the acts done thereunder,
and he or she shall, in all things, strictly comply with the conditions of his
or her license.
   B.   Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with public utilities,
including electrical transmission and distribution lines, water lines and
sewage disposal lines, in the moving of any building or structure pursuant to
this chapter, the person or entity in the work of moving the same shall post,
in addition to the bond described in subsection A of this section, a bond in an
amount equal to double the estimated cost required to move such public
utilities.
   C.   Any bond issued pursuant to this section shall be conditioned also that
the person will immediately pay any judgment that may be obtained against the
city as well as any costs the city may incur in consequence of the granting of
the permit, and all the acts done thereunder, and he or she shall, in all
things, strictly comply with the conditions of such permit.
(1989 Code § 7-132; amd. 2017 Code)
3-6-5: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
Upon the mover furnishing the bond or bonds required in section
3-6-2, the zoning administrator shall issue a permit stating specifically the
conditions, prescribing the route to be taken and limiting the time for the
removal; provided, however, that no permit shall be issued for the removal of
any building or structure in the city except when the same shall comply with
the provisions of the city land development and building codes.
(1989 Code § 7-133; amd. 2017 Code)
3-6-6: MOVING OPERATIONS:
Every person or entity moving a building or structure pursuant to this chapter,
while using any portion of the street or sidewalk, shall cause at least one red
light to be placed in a conspicuous place in front and one in the rear of any
building, or any other obstruction placed in the street by him or her, from
sunset to sunrise of each night and shall also leave all streets and alleys
over which he or she has moved any building in as good condition as they were
before being so used, and shall strictly comply with the terms of his or her
license.
(1989 Code § 7-134)
3-6-7: PENALTY; NUISANCE MAY BE DECLARED:
The owner of any building or structure, or the contractor for its removal,
either or both, who shall suffer the same to be or remain in any of the streets
or alleys or upon any of the public grounds of the city for any time longer
than may be specified in the permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty ($750.00) for every twenty four (24) hours the same shall
be continued. Unless the building is removed within such reasonable time as the
enforcing officer may determine, he or she may declare the same to be a
nuisance and cause its removal.
(1989 Code § 7-131)
CHAPTER 7: CABLE COMMUNICATION FRANCHISES
Section
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Franchise Required
3-7-4: Grant of Nonexclusive Authority
3-7-5: Rules of Grantee
3-7-6: Franchise Territory
3-7-7: Construction Standards
3-7-8: Undergrounding of Cable
3-7-9: Technical Standards
3-7-10: Lockout System
3-7-11: Subscriber Customer Service
3-7-12: Public Benefit Obligation
3-7-13: Franchise Fees
3-7-14: Insurance and Indemnification
3-7-15: Unauthorized Connections and Modifications
3-7-16: State Franchise Holder
3-7-17: Penalties
3-7-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that the development of cable television and
communications systems greatly benefit and impact the residents, commercial
activities and businesses of the city. The city intends, by the adoption of
this chapter, to bring about the consistent development of cable television and
communications systems within the city, along with the continued operation of
such systems in such a manner that such systems are up-to-date and meet the
technological demands of its users.
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words in singular form include the plural form. The word “shall” is
always mandatory. The word “may” is directory and discretionary and not
mandatory.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Service tier which includes the lawful retransmission of
local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by the franchise agreement to be
carried on the basic tier. “Basic cable service” as defined herein shall not be
inconsistent with 47 U.S.C. § 522.
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A system of antennas, cables, wires,
lines, towers, waveguides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities used for distributing video programming to subscribers located in
the city, and for producing, receiving, transmitting, amplifying, storing,
processing or distributing audio, video, digital, or other forms of electronic
signals within the city. “System” as defined herein shall not be inconsistent
with the definition as set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522.
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The provision of television reception,
communications and/or entertainment services distributed over a cable
communications system. This definition shall not include telecommunications
services regulated pursuant to federal and state law as may be amended from
time to time, such as telephone communications systems.
CABLE SERVICE:
   A.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of:
      1.   Video, audio, digital and other programming services; or
      2.   Other programming service.
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service;
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
acceptable to a television receiver of a subscriber and by an appropriate
selector permits a subscriber to view all cable communications services which
the subscriber is lawfully authorized to receive.
DROP: The cable that connects the ground block on the subscriber’s residence to
the nearest feeder cable of the system.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FRANCHISE: An initial authorization, or renewal thereof issued by a franchising
authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a system.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise award or a contractual agreement, containing
the specific provisions of a franchise granted, including referenced
specifications, franchise applications, franchise requirements, ordinances and
other related materials.
GRANTEE: Person receiving a franchise pursuant to a franchise agreement with
the city and in compliance with this chapter, and its agents and employees,
lawful successors, transferees or assignees.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenue received from cable service directly by the grantee
from the operation of its system within the city. The term “gross revenues”
shall not include any fees itemized and passed through as a result of franchise
imposed requirements or any taxes or franchise fees imposed on services
furnished by grantee imposed directly on any subscriber or user by any
municipality, state or other governmental unit and collected by grantee for
such governmental unit. For a state franchise holder, “gross revenues” shall be
defined as provided under the state franchise law.
ICC: The Illinois Commerce Commission.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system from feeder cable to the
subscriber’s terminal or other point of connection and the provision of
associated services.
LOCKOUT SYSTEM: An optional video programming system or an electrical or
mechanical accessory to a subscriber’s terminal which inhibits the viewing of a
specific programming or specific channels provided by way of the cable
communication system, which includes the ability to provide parental control
over access to specific programming or specific channels.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or other legal entity.
STREET: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway, or drive, or any
easement or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the city.
STATE FRANCHISE HOLDER: A holder of a franchise issued by the state of Illinois
to a cable and video provider pursuant to the state franchise law.
STATE FRANCHISE LAW: The Illinois cable and video competition law of 2007 (220
ILCS 5/21-101, et seq.), as may be amended from time to time.
SUBSCRIBER: Person who lawfully receives cable service. In the case of multiple
office buildings or multiple dwelling units, the “subscriber” means the lessee,
tenant or occupant.
3-7-3: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain a cable
communications system in the city, unless such person shall have first obtained
and shall currently hold a valid franchise from the city pursuant to a
franchise agreement or is a state franchise holder. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to provide cable service in the city unless such person shall
have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid franchise or is a state
franchise holder. All franchises granted by the city shall contain the same
substantive terms and conditions.
3-7-4: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The grantee shall be permitted to construct, erect, operate and
maintain poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other
television, video, and cable conductors and fixtures necessary for the
maintenance and operation in the city of the grantee’s cable communications
system in, upon, along, across, above, over, and under any street, public way,
and public place now laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and
additions thereto in the city.
   B.   The grantee’s franchise shall be nonexclusive, and the city shall
reserve the right to grant a similar use of said streets, public ways and
public places to any person at any time during the period of grantee’s
franchise, provided, however, that any additional franchises granted shall
contain the same substantive terms and conditions as grantee’s franchise.
3-7-5: RULES OF GRANTEE:
The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable said grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligation under a franchise.
3-7-6: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
A franchise shall be granted for the corporate boundaries of the city, as it
exists from time to time. In the event of annexation by the city, or as
development occurs, any new territory shall become part of the area covered by
the franchise, provided, however, that grantee shall not be required to extend
service beyond its present system boundaries unless there is a minimum of ten
(10) homes per cable quarter mile. Access to cable service shall not be denied
to any group of potential residential cable subscribers because of the income
of the residents of the area in which such group resides. Grantee shall be
provided a reasonable period of time to construct and activate cable service to
annexed or newly developed areas.
3-7-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Construction Codes and Permits:
      1.   Grantee shall obtain all necessary permits and easements from the
city before commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system,
including the opening or disturbance of any street or public property within
city.
      2.   The city shall have the right to inspect all construction or
installation work performed pursuant to the provisions of a franchise agreement
and to make such tests at its own expense as it shall find necessary to ensure
compliance with the terms of the franchise agreement and applicable provisions
of local, state and federal law.
   B.   Repair of Streets and Property: Any and all streets or public property
or private property, which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
repair, replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance, upgrade or
reconstruction of the system, shall be promptly and fully restored by grantee,
at its expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing prior to grantee’s
work.
   C.   Building Movers: The grantee shall, on request of any person holding a
moving permit issued by the city pursuant to chapter 6 of this title 3,
temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving of buildings with
the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the person requesting the
same, and the grantee shall be given not less than ten (10) days advance notice
to arrange for such temporary changes.
   D.   Tree Trimming: The grantee shall have the authority to trim any trees
upon and overhanging the streets, sidewalks or public easements of the city so
as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the grantee.
   E.   Safety Requirements: When constructing, installing, maintaining,
repairing, extending or upgrading its cable communications system, the grantee
shall at all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and shall install and
maintain in use nothing less than commonly accepted methods and devices for
preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public.
3-7-8: UNDERGROUNDING OF CABLE:
   A.   In all areas of the city where all other utility lines are placed
underground, grantee shall construct and install its cables, wires and other
facilities underground at grantee’s cost.
   B.   In any area of the city where one or more public utilities are aerial,
grantee may construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from
the same pole with the consent of the owner of the pole.
   C.   New Development:
      1.   In cases of new construction or property development where utilities
are to be placed underground, upon request by the grantee, the developer or
property owner shall give the grantee reasonable notice of the particular date
on which open trenching will be available for the grantee’s installation of
conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals to be provided at grantee’s
expense. The grantee shall also provide specifications as needed for trenching.
      2.   Costs of trenching and easements required to bring service to the
development shall be borne by the developer or property owner; except that if
the grantee fails to install its conduits, pedestals and/or vaults, and
laterals within seven working days of the date the trenches are available, as
designated in the notice given by the developer or property owner, then should
the trenches be closed after the seven (7) working-day period, the cost of new
trenching shall be borne by the grantee.
3-7-9: TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
The technical standards used in the operation of the system shall comply, at
minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC relating to cable
communication systems pursuant to the FCC rules and regulations, including the
provisions found in 47 C.F.R. 76.601 through 76.617.
3-7-10: LOCKOUT SYSTEM:
Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall provide lockout system as part
of the cable service or by sale or lease.
3-7-11: SUBSCRIBER CUSTOMER SERVICE:
   A.   Subscriber Inquiries: Grantee shall have a publicly listed toll-free
telephone number and be operated so as to receive subscriber complaints and
requests on a twenty four (24) hour-a-day, seven (7) days a week basis.
   B.   Refund Policy: In the event a subscriber established or terminates
service and receives less than a full month’s service, grantee shall prorate
the monthly rate on the basis of the number of days in the period for which
service was rendered to the number of days in the billing.
   C.   Protection of Subscriber Privacy Rights: Grantee shall comply with the
terms of 47 U.S.C. 551 relating to the protection of subscriber privacy.
3-7-12: PUBLIC BENEFIT OBLIGATION:
Grantee shall provide installation of one (1) cable drop, one (1) cable outlet
and monthly basic cable service without charge to all current and future public
buildings within the city, including, but not limited to, City Hall, the
Princeton Public Library, and all schools of the Princeton High School District
No. 500 and Princeton Elementary School District No. 115. Each local unit of
government shall bear the costs of any inside wiring or video equipment costs
not ordinarily provided as part of the grantee’s basic cable service offering.
Grantee shall have six (6) months from the opening date of any additional
institution(s) or public buildings to complete construction of the drop and
outlet.
3-7-13: FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   Fee Amount: Grantee shall pay to the city a franchise fee in an annual
amount equal to five percent (5%) of its annual gross revenues.
   B.   Fee Payment: Grantee shall make payments of the franchise fee to the
city treasurer on a quarterly basis, making such quarterly payments no later
than forty-five (45) days after the close of the respective calendar quarter.
   C.   Audit: Grantee shall comply with any audit requirements imposed under
the applicable franchise agreement. If no audit provisions are set forth in the
franchise agreement, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the city
pursuant to the local government taxpayers’ bill of rights act (50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq.). No acceptance of amounts remitted by a grantee shall be construed as an
accord that the amounts are correct. Any additional amount due after an audit
shall be paid by the grantee within thirty (30) days after the city’s invoice
for the sum.
3-7-14: INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Grantee shall provide the city with grantee’s acceptance of a
franchise, and at all times thereafter during the applicable term of the
franchise agreement, maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy coverage naming the city as an
additional insured as provide herein. Grantee’s insurance coverage shall be in
the sum of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury or death of any one person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence, and one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage resulting from any one act
or occurrence.
   B.   The policy or policies of insurance shall be maintained by grantee in
full force and effect during the entire term of the franchise. Each policy of
insurance shall contain a statement on its face that the insurer will not
cancel the policy or fail to renew the policy, whether for nonpayment of
premium or otherwise, and whether at the request of grantee or for other
reasons, except after thirty (30) days’ advance written notice has been
provided to the city.
   C.   The grantee, on behalf of itself, its successors, assigns, employees
and agents, shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers,
boards, commissions, agents and employees and each of them, against and from
any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, liabilities, costs, expenses and
judgments of every kind and nature regardless of the merits of the same,
arising out of or through the exercise or enjoyment of the franchise granted to
the grantee pursuant to this cable communications franchise code and under a
franchise agreement, including cost of litigation, attorneys’ fees and court
costs in defense of any action, to the extent that such claims or demands are
alleged to be the result of any error, omission, intentional act, reckless act
or negligent act of the grantee or any employee, servant or agent of the
grantee including, but not limited to, all claims arising in tort, contracts,
infringement of copyright, violation of statutes, ordinances, regulations or
the failure to comply with any obligation or duty imposed by this cable
communications franchise code or a franchise agreement.
3-7-15: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Connections or Modifications Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person, without the express consent of the grantee, to make or
possess, or assist anybody in making or possessing, any connection, extension,
or division, whether physically, acoustically, inductively, electronically or
otherwise, with or to any segment of the system.
   B.   Removal or Destruction Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to willfully interfere, tamper, remove, obstruct or damage, or assist thereof,
any part or segment of the system for any purpose whatsoever.
3-7-16: STATE FRANCHISE HOLDER:
   A.   Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed. As provided under the state
franchise law, the city imposes a fee upon a state franchise holder providing
cable and video services within the city in the amount of five percent (5%) of
the state franchise holder’s gross revenues from providing such services within
the city.
   B.   Notice to City: The state franchise holder shall notify the city at
least ten days prior to the date on which the state franchise holder begins to
offer cable service or video service in the city.
   C.   Payment of Provider Fee: The state franchise holder shall be liable for
and pay the service provider fee to the city. The state franchise holder’s
liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of the calendar month
following thirty (30) days after receipt of the ordinance adopting this chapter
by the state franchise holder, which shall be sent to the state franchise
holder by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the state franchise
holder’s application notice sent to the city pursuant to state franchise law.
   D.   Payment Date: The state franchise holder shall make payments of the
service provider fee to the city treasurer on a quarterly basis, making such
quarterly payments no later than forty five (45) days after the close of the
respective calendar quarter. Each payment shall include a statement explaining
the basis for the state franchise holder’s calculation of the fee.
   E.   Credit for Other Payment: A franchise holder that elects to terminate
an existing franchise agreement pursuant to the state franchise law with credit
for paid franchise fees under a franchise agreement with the city may deduct
the amount of such credit from the service provider fee that service providers
owes the village upon becoming a state franchise holder.
   F.   Construction Standards: A state franchise holder shall comply with all
provisions in sections
3-8-7 and
3-8-8 of this chapter regarding construction standards and underground cabling.
   G.   Public Benefit Obligation: A state franchise holder shall provide a
free service line drop and free basic service to all current and future public
buildings within their service territory within the city, including, but not
limited to, City Hall, the Princeton Public Library, and schools of the
Princeton High School District No. 500 and Princeton Elementary School District
No. 115. Each local unit of government shall bear the costs of any inside
wiring or video equipment costs not ordinarily provided as part of the state
franchise holder basic offering.
   H.   Audit Requirement: A state franchise holder shall comply with the same
requirements imposed by the city on other cable service or video service
providers that are providing such services within the city to audit the state
franchise holder’s books and records and to recalculate any amounts determined
to be payable under to the city. Before conducting an audit, the city will
notify the state franchise holder of the requirements imposed on other cable
service or video service providers to submit to an audit of the service
provider’s books and records. If the city has no local franchises, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the local
government taxpayers’ bill of rights act (50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.). No acceptance
of amounts remitted by a state franchise holder shall be construed as an accord
that the amounts are correct. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid by the state franchise holder within thirty (30) days after the city’s
invoice for the sum.
3-7-17: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter may be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each and every subsequent offense. Each continuing day of
the violation shall be considered a separate offense.
CHAPTER 8: PEDDLERS, BROKERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License and Bond Requirement
3-8-3: Application and Fee
3-8-4: Exemption from Licensing Requirements
3-8-5: Possession of License Required; Non-Transferrable
3-8-6: Hours and Days of Operation
3-8-7: Public Streets and Public Property
3-8-8: Nuisance Declared
3-8-9: Fraud
3-8-10: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
BROKER: Any person, whether or not the person is an employee of another person,
who takes orders or subscriptions, while traveling house to house or from place
to place in, along or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public
places within the city, for future delivery of tangible personal property or
services by a seller, at retail, whether to regular customers or not,
regardless of whether or not such person collects payment therefor at the time
of such transaction, but who does not make delivery of such property or perform
such service at that time.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any person, whether or not the person is an employee of
another person, who on real property in which he or she does not hold a fee
simple interest establishes a display, exhibition or sales facility for the
purpose of selling, offering or displaying for sale and immediate delivery, or
taking orders or subscriptions for the future delivery of tangible personal
property at retail shall be considered an itinerant merchant for purposes of
this chapter if:
   A.   The display, exhibition or sales facility is established with the
intent that such display, exhibition or sales facility will remain in operation
for a period of less than six (6) months; or
   B.   The display, exhibition or sales facility is established with the
intent that its operation will be interrupted for a period of more than ninety
(90) days in any calendar year.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any bona fide charitable, educational, fraternal,
labor, religious or veterans’ organization that operates without profit to its
members and which has been in existence continuously for a period of five (5)
years or more immediately before making application for a license and which has
had during the entire five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in
carrying out its objectives.
PEDDLER: Any person, whether or not the person is an employee of another
person, who directly or indirectly sells or offers for sale, barter or exchange
any farm produce, vegetables, dairy products, meat, fish, foods of any kind or
other goods, wares or merchandise of any kind, at retail, making delivery of
said goods at the time of sale regardless of whether or not such person
collects payment at the time of sale, all while traveling from place to place
in, along and upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places within
the city, or while operating from one or more locations outside of a totally
enclosed permanent structure.
3-8-2: LICENSE AND BOND REQUIREMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, itinerant merchant or broker to
transact any business within the city without having first obtained a license
therefor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, itinerant merchant or broker as
herein defined, to transact any business within the city without having first
filed with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), in cash or executed by a surety company, conditioned that
the applicant shall comply with all the provisions of this code, the city
ordinances and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods, wares and merchandise and will pay all judgments rendered against such
applicant for any violation of this code, or the ordinances or statutes or any
of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against
him or her by any person for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or
deception practiced on any person transacting such business with the applicant,
whether such representation or deception was made or practiced by the owners or
by their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale
or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated
with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought by any person.
   C.   No license required in subsection A shall be issued until the applicant
therefor shall have filed the bond required in subsection B.
3-8-3: APPLICATION AND FEE:
Applications for licenses required by the preceding section shall be made in
writing to the city clerk and shall state thereon the name and permanent
address of the applicant; the kind of merchandise or nature of service to be
sold or contracted for; the proposed area or place where the business is sought
to be conducted; the proposed hours during which business will be conducted;
the state sales tax number of the operator; and, in case of a corporation or
firm, the name, permanent business address and names of the principal officers
of the same. An annual license fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall
be paid for a license under this chapter, which shall be paid to the city clerk
upon submission of an application for a license. Upon receipt of a properly
completed application and payment of the license fee, the city clerk shall
grant licenses under this chapter.
3-8-4: EXEMPTION FROM LICENSING REQUIREMENT:
The following shall be exempt from the application, license, bond, and fee
requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Prior Invitation: With regard to brokers and peddlers, any person who,
for the purpose of selling or taking orders for the sale of merchandise or
services, has been previously invited by the occupant of a residence to call
thereon.
   B.   Nonprofit Organization: Any person selling, peddling, soliciting or
taking orders for any goods or services not prohibited by law on behalf of a
nonprofit organization sponsored by or participated in by a local chapter of
such organization; or by a national nonprofit organization not represented
locally but which has filed a statement of registration with the city clerk
specifying the name of the nonprofit organization, its permanent address, the
names of its principal officers and names of those persons who are authorized
to sell, peddle or solicit or take orders for goods and services within the
city. Further, any person selling, peddling, soliciting or taking orders for
any goods or services not prohibited by law while invited to participate in any
celebration, fair, festival or similar activity sponsored by a nonprofit
organization.
   C.   School District Property: Any person selling, peddling, soliciting or
taking orders for any goods or services not prohibited by law while on school
district property when consent for an authorized official of the school
district is first obtained.
   D.   Farmers or Gardeners: Any person who sells the produce of his or her
own farm, vineyard, orchard or garden, provided he or she does not obstruct
streets, sidewalks or other public places within the city; provided, however,
that nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the sale of
alcoholic, spirituous, malt or other intoxicating liquors or peddling of any
kind whatsoever in any public park.
   E.   Newspaper Vendors: Any person who, on behalf of the publisher of any
newspaper of general circulation within the city, peddles the same within the
city.
   F.   Certain Peddlers and Brokers Operating in Residential Areas: Any
peddler or broker as defined in this chapter who operates only on a door-to-
door basis and only in residential areas of the city and whose sole means of
attracting potential customers is by knocking on doors or ringing doorbells
rather than the use of bells, buzzers, microphones, horns, whistles or other
similar devices.
3-8-5: POSSESSION OF LICENSE REQUIRED; NON-TRANSFERRABLE:
Any person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall, at all times while engaged
in the activities defined in section
3-8-1, keep said license in his or her possession and shall display the same
upon the demand of any law enforcement officer or city official or upon the
request of any person whose premises he or she seeks to enter. Said license
shall not be transferable without the written consent of the city.
3-8-6: HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler, itinerant merchant or broker to transact
the business of a peddler, itinerant merchant or broker as defined in section
3-8-1 before the hour of nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. or after sunset.
3-8-7: PUBLIC STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, for the purpose of dispensing or
displaying any goods, wares, foodstuff or other merchandise or tangible
personal property of any nature whatsoever, to erect or place any temporary or
permanent stand, cart, wagon or other structure or vehicle upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other location owned or maintained by the city, or to go
about the city or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other place owned or
maintained by the city while making any noise, blowing any horn or using any
like device to call attention to his or her goods, wares, foodstuff or other
merchandise or tangible personal property of any nature whatsoever.
3-8-8: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and welfare and a nuisance
for any peddler, itinerant merchant, or broker to enter upon private premises
in disregard of the express wish of the owner or occupant or into a private
residence without the express consent of the owner or occupant for the purpose
of selling, peddling or soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares or
merchandise
3-8-9: FRAUD:
Any licensed peddler, broker or itinerant merchant who shall be guilty of any
fraud, cheating, misrepresentation or imposition, whether himself or herself or
through an employee, while engaged in his or her trade within the city or who
shall broker, sell or peddle any goods other than those specified in his or her
application for a license shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
3-8-10: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a violation continues
shall be a separate offense.
CHAPTER 9: ATHLETIC CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS
Section
3-9-1: License Required
3-9-2: Application For License; Bond Requirements; Issuance Of License
3-9-3: Tax Imposed
3-9-4: Manner Of Payment
3-9-5: Failure To Pay Tax
3-9-6: Suspension Of License
3-9-7: Keeping Of Records
3-9-8: Penalties
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, limited liability company, corporation, or entity shall
conduct an athletic contest or exhibition for gain without first obtaining a
license as provided in this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the phrase
“for gain” shall not include contests or exhibitions organized by a charitable
organization or a governmental entity or operated for charitable or
governmental purposes.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; BOND REQUIREMENTS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any person, firm, limited liability company, corporation, or entity
desiring to conduct an athletic contest or exhibition for gain shall make
written application for such license to the city clerk, setting forth in such
application the following information:
      1.   The full name, age and address of the applicant, and if the
applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company, the name,
age and address of each of its officers and directors, partners or members, as
applicable.
      2.   The location or place at or in which such athletic contest or
exhibition is to be conducted.
      3.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   B.   Each applicant shall execute and present with such written application
a bond in the penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), payable to the city,
with at least two (2) good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the city
clerk, which bond shall state upon its face that it shall be in force during
the entire continuance of the license which may be issued pursuant thereto.
   C.   Upon the presenting of such written application and bond, and upon
payment by such applicant to the city treasurer of a license fee in the amount
specified in this chapter, the city clerk shall issue or cause to be issued to
such applicant a license signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk
authorizing athletic contests or exhibitions at the place described in the
application for and during the term of the license.
   D.   The license fees for operating or conducting any athletic contest or
exhibition pursuant to this chapter shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
All license fees shall be payable annually in advance.
   E.   All licenses under this chapter shall expire on April 30 following
their issuance. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
establishment of the licensee. Such license shall be non-assignable and
nontransferable and, in the case of a proprietor, shall apply only to the
premises for which such license is issued.
   F.   If an application is made pursuant to this chapter more than six (6)
months prior to the next April 30, the full license fee shall be charged for
each such application. If less than six (6) months remains until the next April
30, a license fee of one-half (1/2) the amount specified in this chapter shall
be charged for such application.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-3: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed upon the gross receipts derived from the sale of admission
tickets at a rate of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts derived from the
sale of admission tickets or other charges to witness such athletic contests or
exhibitions. The ultimate incident of and liability for payment of said tax
shall be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of admission to an
athletic contest or exhibition for gain. It shall be the duty of the person,
firm, limited liability company, corporation or entity conducting or operating
an athletic contest or exhibition for gain to act as trustee for and on account
of the city, and to secure said tax from the sale of admission tickets or other
charges to witness such athletic contests or exhibitions and pay over to the
city clerk said tax under procedures prescribed by the city clerk or as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-4: MANNER OF PAYMENT:
The athletic tax shall be paid to the city clerk not later than the tenth day
of each calendar month for all gross receipts during the preceding calendar
month. A tax return including a verified statement of such gross receipts, in
the form prescribed from time to time by the city clerk, shall accompany the
payment. Acceptance by the city of any amount tendered in payment of the tax
shall be without prejudice to any claim, demand or right on account of any
deficiency.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-5: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   Late Payment Penalty: If for any reason any person liable to pay the
tax due when and as required under this chapter, said person shall pay to the
city, in addition to the amount of tax required to be transmitted, a penalty of
five percent (5%) of the tax that said person is required to transmit to the
city; provided, however, that a twenty percent (20%) penalty shall be imposed
for the submission of any fraudulent tax return.
   B.   In addition to the penalty set forth in subsection A of this section,
any amount of tax not paid to the city when due shall bear interest at the rate
of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the
day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
   C.   Any officer, member, partner or employee of any corporation, limited
liability company, firm or partnership which is subject to the provisions of
this chapter, who has control, supervision or responsibility of collecting tax
proceeds, filing returns and transmitting collected tax proceeds of the tax
imposed by this chapter and who willfully fails to file such return or to
transmit any tax proceeds so collected to the city shall be personally liable
for any such amounts collected, including interest and penalties thereon, in
the event that after proper proceedings for the collection of such amount, such
corporation, firm or partnership is unable to pay such amounts to the city; and
the personal liability of such officer or employees, as provided herein, shall
survive dissolution of the corporation, firm, or partnership. For purposes of
this subsection, a person willfully fails to act if he or she takes any
conscious and voluntary action intending not to perform any of his or her
obligations here under, including, but not limited to, the utilizing of tax
proceeds collected for the city to pay any other corporate obligations.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-6: SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If the city manager, after hearing held by him or her, shall find that any
person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, he or
she may suspend or revoke any or all city licenses held by such person, or may
suspend any or all services provided by the city. The person liable for the tax
under this chapter shall have an opportunity to be heard at a hearing to be
held not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and place of such
hearing, addressed to him or her at his or her last known place of business.
For purposes of this section, a person willfully avoids payment of the tax if
he or she takes any conscious and voluntary action intending not to perform any
of the obligations hereunder, including, but not limited to, the utilization of
tax proceeds collected from the sale of admission tickets to pay any other
obligations.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-7: KEEPING OF RECORDS:
Any person liable for the tax pursuant to this chapter shall keep complete and
accurate books, records and accounts in detail of all such gross receipts. The
city clerk, or his or her designated agent, may examine, on demand, all such
books, records and accounts pertaining to such contest or exhibition so held.
If an examination under this section reveals an underpayment of the tax set
forth in this chapter of three percent (3%) or more, the person liable for the
tax shall be responsible for the costs of such examination.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
3-9-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first
offense and not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in
any one hundred eighty (180) day period.
(Ord. O-18-018, 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 10: MOBILE FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDORS
Section
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Operations Generally
3-10-3: Permit To Operate
3-10-4: Mobile Food Vendor Permit Application
3-10-5: Mobile Food Vendor Permit Prerequisites
3-10-6: Permit Duration And Fee
3-10-7: Effect Of Cessation Of Business
3-10-8: Business Insurance And Indemnity
3-10-9: Permit Issuance
3-10-10: Permit Transferability
3-10-11: Permit Identification
3-10-12: Safety And Ordinance Inspections
3-10-13: Location Restrictions
3-10-14: Locations Allowed
3-10-15: Days and Hours Of Operation
3-10-16: Special Events
3-10-17: Additional Taxing Districts Within the City
3-10-18: Reserving Spots
3-10-19: Tax Revenue
3-10-20: Standards Of Conduct
3-10-21: Restriction On Use And Permits
3-10-22: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
3-10-23: Violations And Penalties
3-10-24: Reservation Of Rights
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEVERAGE: Any non-alcoholic liquid, hot or cold, intended for use in whole or
in part for human consumption. Alcohol beverage sales by mobile food vendor
units is not allowed.
BRICK-AND-MORTAR BUSINESS: A business lawfully operating at a fixed location
within a building in the city limits.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR AND/OR UNIT:
   A.   A person who sells, serves, offers for sale, or gives away food or
beverages from any self-contained mobile unit, independent with respect to
water, sewer and power utilities, capable of moving or being moved, is meant to
be portable and is not permanently attached to the ground, consisting of an
enclosed truck, trailer, bus or similar vehicle that contains equipment used
for sale and/or preparation of food or beverage merchandise and is closed up
when not in operation.
   B.   A mobile ice cream truck, whose route is residential only, and that
does not park or locate in any one place for longer than ten minutes, is not
considered a mobile food vender unit for purposes of this chapter, but only as
it pertains to section
3-10-14.
NOVELTY MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT: A two-wheeled mobile unit that operates within
the city limits of Princeton ten (10) times or less a calendar year. The city
of Princeton manager and clerk will be the sole arbiters whether any specific
vendor qualifies as a novelty mobile food vendor.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: All outdoor areas that are not owned or leased by any
governmental agency or entity, including, but not limited to, streets,
alleyways, sidewalks, plazas, parking lots, or other areas adjacent to
buildings not owned by a governmental agency or entity.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: All outdoor areas that are owned, or leased as lessee, by the
city or one of the city’s departments, or upon which the city or one of its
departments has an easement or right of way including, but not limited to,
streets, alley ways sidewalks, plazas, parking lots or other areas adjacent to
buildings owned by the city or one of its departments.
RESTAURANT: A place where people pay to sit and eat food that is cooked or
baked and served on premises.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any event so designated by the city of Princeton.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-2: OPERATIONS GENERALLY:
It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-3: PERMIT TO OPERATE:
   A.   It is unlawful to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the city without
first having secured a city of Princeton permit to do so as provided by this
chapter.
   B.   A separate permit shall be required for each mobile food vendor unit.
   C.   The permit period within the city limits is annual, from January 1
through December 31.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-4: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a permit under this chapter shall submit a fully completed
application to the city clerk at least fourteen (14) days prior to the proposed
date of utilizing the mobile food vendor unit in the city. Applicants may be
owners of mobile food vendor units, or private entities. The application must
set forth or have attached the following information as specified:
   A.   The applicant’s name, current physical address, phone number, email
address and date of birth;
   B.   The name, current physical address, and phone number of the person or
entity the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of
such employment or representation. The name, if any, of the person or entity
that owns or operates the vehicle and/or trailer, if different from the name of
the mobile food vendor unit;
   C.   The license plate number of the mobile food vendor unit vehicle to be
used to serve customers;
   D.   The type of products to be sold;
   E.   The place or places where the mobile food vendor unit will operate and
a written statement, if applicable, from the owner of any private business
property authorizing the applicant to use the property.
   F.   The mobile food vendor unit may enter into a lease agreement with a
business property owner to have their mobile food vendor unit located long-term
on the business owner’s property at the location of the business. At the time
of the application, the owner of the business property and the mobile food
vendor unit must notify the city of the arrangement, and the mobile food vendor
unit must follow all conditions and terms of this chapter.
   G.   The duration of the permit being sought.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-5: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT PREREQUISITES:
An application for a permit under this chapter shall not be considered unless
proof of the following is provided with the application:
   A.   A copy of a valid driver’s license of the individual that will be
operating the mobile food vendor unit;
   B.   A copy of the Illinois registration for the mobile food vendor unit;
   C.   Proof of registration as a business with the Illinois secretary of
state;
   D.   Proof of an employer tax identification number;
   E.   Proof of insurance in the amount required by this chapter;
   F.   A liability insurance policy covering the subject vehicle and/or
trailer;
   G.   A copy of the vehicle and/or trailer’s registration;
   H.   A copy of the food handler’s certificate for each employee as required
by the Illinois department of public health; and
   I.   A copy of the proper mobile food vendor unit license from the Illinois
and/or Bureau county health department.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-6: PERMIT DURATION AND FEE:
   A.   1.   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee in accordance with the
schedule set forth below. The year-to-year permit period runs from January 1
through December 31.
      2.   The operation of generators by mobile food vendor units is not
permitted while operating on public property. The following fees are inclusive
of the city providing 220-volt service at the permitted public property
locations:
      3.   The following fee schedule, with electricity hook-up, goes into
effect January 1, 2022:
         a.   A one day permit: forty dollars ($40.00) (seven o’clock (7:00)
a.m. to ten o’clock (10:00) p.m.);
         b.   A consecutive six-month permit: two hundred dollars ($200.00);
and
         c.   One year permit: three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   B.   The following listed organizations and/or entities, while required to
obtain a permit under this chapter, are exempt from having to pay fees, so long
as the proceeds raised are used exclusively for religious, charitable or
educational purposes:
      1.   Churches;
      2.   Schools;
      3.   Benevolent organizations;
      4.   Fraternal organizations; and
      5.   Other similarly situated organizations. The city shall be the sole
arbiter of whether an organization or entity is such an organization.
   C.   Also exempt from paying fees, but otherwise required to obtain a
permit, is any brick-and-mortar restaurant located within the city limits of
Princeton, who also operates a mobile food vendor unit.
   D.   Novelty vendors, as defined, will pay a one-time yearly permit fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-7: EFFECT OF CESSATION OF BUSINESS:
No deductions or rebates shall be allowed from the fee for a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter for any part of the term of which the permit holder
does not engage in such business.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-8: BUSINESS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY:
   A.   Each applicant for a permit shall provide a certificate of insurance to
the city of Princeton clerk, insuring the applicant, and explicitly naming the
city of Princeton as co-insured, against liabilities and in the amounts
relative to such activity:
      1.   Commercial general liability of not less than five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00);
      2.   The insurance shall provide for thirty (30) days prior written
notice to the city of Princeton if coverage is changed, cancelled or non-
renewed.
   B.   The city of Princeton shall be named as an additional insured on the
permittee’s liability policy on a primary, noncontributory basis for any
liability arising directly or indirectly from the operation of a mobile food
vendor unit, and the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city
harmless from any loss that results directly or indirectly from the permit
issuance.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-9: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   The clerk shall within 14 days of receipt of the completed application
issue the business permit to the applicant if the clerk finds the following:
      1.   Compliance with all provisions of this chapter;
      2.   The applicant has not had a prior permit issued under this chapter,
or any other similar permit or license authorized by a different governmental
entity, suspended or revoked; and
   B.   The clerk may, upon a finding of appropriateness, issue a permit to an
applicant who has been found to meet the terms of the above subsections.
   C.   Failure of the clerk to issue a permit within fourteen (14) days of
completion of the application constitutes denial of the application.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-10: PERMIT TRANSFERABILITY:
A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-11: PERMIT IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   All permits issued by the clerk under this chapter shall be prominently
displayed on the mobile food vendor unit and shall be shown to any person who
requests to view the permit.
   B.   Failure to display or exhibit a permit in accordance with this section
may be grounds for suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-12: SAFETY AND ORDINANCE INSPECTIONS:
If, at any time, the city of Princeton, or state or county officials believe
that a mobile food vendor unit operating within the city limits of Princeton is
not in compliance with the mobile food vendor unit ordinance or state or local
health regulations, the mobile food vendor unit must allow inspections as
pertains to the following:
   A.   City Ordinances And Police And Fire Department Regulations: All health,
safety, and parking regulations applicable to Vendors, must be complied with at
all times, as well as police and fire department guidelines. City
representatives, police, and fire personnel will be permitted to inspect
vendors to ensure all ordinances and regulations are being complied with while
operating within the city limits, whether on public or private property.
Failure to permit an inspection by a city representative, police officer or
fire department personnel may result in suspension or revocation of the vendor
permit.
   B.   State: Vendors must ensure that they are following the Illinois
department of public health FDA food code and all other state health, safety or
sanitation requirements applicable to mobile food, beverage and ice cream
vendors.
   C.   County: Vendors must ensure they are following the Bureau county health
department regulations and all other county health, safety or sanitation code
applicable to mobile food, beverage and ice cream vendors.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-13: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Mobile Food Vendor Units:
      1.   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate in any city owned parking
lot or parking space unless provided for in this chapter.
      2.   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate in an alleyway.
      3.   No mobile food vendor unit shall operate on any U.S. route or state
route located within the city limits (U.S. route 6, U.S. route 34, IL route
26), and no mobile food vendor unit shall operate on Main Street, between Peru
Street and the Court House Square, nor shall any mobile food vendor unit
operate upon any city street within the city limits unless, in all cases, it’s
provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
      4.   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate on the private property of a
business unless the private property business owner has provided the mobile
food vendor unit permission to operate on said property.
      5.   No mobile vendor unit shall operate within a one block radius of a
special event unless prior approval has been granted by either the operator of
the special event or by the city of Princeton.
      6.   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located in a manner that would
impede or prevent use of any city of Princeton owned property, or which would
endanger the safety or property of the public.
      7.   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located within fifteen (15) feet
of any fire hydrant.
      8.   No mobile food vendor unit shall locate within any zoning district
except for the following: B1; B2; B3; and B4.
      9.   No mobile food vendor unit shall operate in residential
neighborhoods or on residential lots.
      10.   No mobile food vendor unit operating on private business property
shall displace required parking, or displace landscaping, nor block any drives,
parking access aisles, fire lanes, sidewalks or accessible routes required for
private parking.
      11.   No mobile food vendor unit shall be located more than one (1) foot
away from the curb of the street which it is parked.
      12.   No mobile food vendor shall park near an intersection and in a
manner that blocks the line-of-sight of drivers using adjacent roadways.
      13.   No mobile food vendor units may operate on public property within
the city limits during the Friday, Saturday and Sunday of the city’s annual
homestead festival, unless approved by the homestead festival committee and
granted a permit by the city. A specific exception exists for the historic
mobile popcorn wagon, which has operated in Princeton for decades.
      14.   Permit holding Mobile food vendor units shall not operate during
additional black-out dates assigned by the city, which are identified on the
city calendar accessed on the city’s website.
      15.   No mobile food vendor unit may operate within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of the following events:
         a.   From one (1) hour before to one (1) hour after food is served
during lunch in the park:
         b.   From one (1) hour before to one (1) hour after food is served
during beef days:
         c.   From one (1) hour before to one (1) hour after the community band
performs.
   B.   Novelty Food Vendor Units:
      1.   Novelty mobile food vendor units, as defined, are not restricted
from operating on Main Street sidewalks between Long Street and the court house
square, but must first notify the city via a special event application, which
must be approved by the city.
      2.   Novelty mobile food vendor units must abide by the hours of
operation, as defined in this chapter.
      3.   Novelty mobile food vendors are not restricted from operating in the
area, and during the times, when the following events occur, but can only
participate by invitation from the event organizer:
         a.   Lunch in the park;
         b.   Beef days;
         c.   Community band.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021; Ord. O-24-008, 5-20-2024)
3-10-14: LOCATIONS ALLOWED:
Mobile food vendor units are allowed to operate in the following locations, and
must conform to the terms and conditions provided in this chapter:
   A.   Along the north curb of Bicentennial Drive in the area east of the
caboose;
   B.   The southeast corner of Soldier and Sailors Park, parallel, along the
north curb in the area designated by yellow curb paint as “no parking”, east of
the monument. Service must be curb side only; and
   C.   Mobile food vendor units may operate on the private property of a
business as stipulated in section3-10-13A4, and on business only property in
the zoned areas stipulated in section
3-10-13A8, with permission of the property owner.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-15: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Mobile food vendor units are allowed to operate in the city of
Princeton seven days a week, from seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. until nine o’clock
(9:00) p.m., whether on public property or on the property of a private
business however.
   B.   Mobile food vendor units that set up at either public property location
must not do so earlier than six thirty o’clock (6:30) a.m., and they must
vacate the premises no later than nine thirty o’clock (9:30) p.m. No mobile
food vendor unit may operate longer than five (5) hours on any given day at
either public property site. This five (5) hour limitation on public property
is inclusive of set up and tear down.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-16: SPECIAL EVENTS:
Special events, as defined, are designated by the City of Princeton:
   A.   From time to time, there may be a business, or a community service-
related organization, that wants to hold a special event on public property
that is not sponsored by the city of Princeton, Princeton tourism or the
Princeton chamber of commerce, where mobile food vendor unit(s) are preferred.
Special events, as such, will be held specifically at rotary park, and must
first be applied for via a city of Princeton special event application no later
than two (2) weeks prior to the special event, on which the request for a
mobile food vendor unit(s) shall be documented. It is the special event
organizer and the mobile food vendor’s responsibility to ensure approval by the
city of the special event before advertising and holding any such special
event.
   B.   Mobile food vendor unit limitations regarding locations, alcohol sales
and hours of operation do not apply to special events on public property that
are sponsored by the city of Princeton, city of Princeton tourism or the
Princeton chamber of commerce. Mobile food vendor units must comply with all
other terms and conditions provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-17: ADDITIONAL TAXING DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   Princeton park district, Princeton elementary school district,
Princeton high school district:
      1.   Mobile food vendor units are allowed to operate on properties owned
and maintained by the aforementioned taxing bodies, irrespective of zoning, via
invitation and permission of the taxing body, so long as the event occurs on
the property of the taxing body, within the city of Princeton, and the event
benefits the taxing body that is hosting the event.
      2.   Mobile food vendor units must comply with all other terms and
conditions provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-18: RESERVING SPOTS:
Mobile food vendors will be required to reserve a spot for one of the two
designated public property locations by contacting the city of Princeton.
Vendors are encouraged to contact the city at least 24 hours in advance, with
date and time span of operation, so a spot can be reserved. If a vendor must
cancel a reservation, they must do so as soon as the cancellation is known so
the spot can be re-opened. Reservations will only be taken directly from the
vendor reserving the spot.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-19: TAX REVENUE:
All sales by mobile food vendor units operating anywhere in the city that are
subject to sales and use tax, and that occur while operating within the city
limits of Princeton, must be reported with required payment to the Illinois
department of revenue, with the city of Princeton identified as the point of
sale.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-20: STANDARDS OF CONDUCT:
All mobile food vendor units shall conform to the following standards of
conduct:
   A.   Mobile food vendors shall conduct themselves at all times in an orderly
and lawful manner, and shall not make, or cause to be made, any unreasonable
noise of such volume as to be in violation of the city of Princeton noise
ordinance;
   B.   A device may not be used that amplifies sounds or draws attention to a
mobile food vendor unit by an aural means or a light producing device such as
bull horns or strobe lights;
   C.   No mobile food vendor unit shall generate power by use of a generator
while operating on public property, unless the generator is manufactured as
silent;
   D.   No mobile food vendor unit may be permanently or temporarily affixed to
any object, including but not limited to buildings, trees, telephone poles,
streetlight poles, traffic signal poles or fire hydrants;
   E.   No mobile food vendor unit may be used to advertise any product which
is not authorized to be sold from that unit;
   F.   Each mobile food vendor unit shall protect against littering and shall
have both an adequate trash receptacle and a separate receptacle for recyclable
materials:
      1.   The trash and recyclable receptacles shall be emptied sufficiently
often to allow disposal of litter and trash by the public at any time;
      2.   The trash and recyclable receptacles on the mobile food vendor unit
shall not be emptied into trash or recyclable receptacles owned by the city of
Princeton;
      3.   Liquid from the mobile food vendor unit shall not be discharged on
or on a city sewer or drain or elsewhere on city property, nor on private
property.
   G.   Before leaving any location, each mobile food vendor unit shall first
pick up, remove and dispose of all trash, refuse and/or recyclable material,
including products spilt on the ground within twenty (20) feet of the mobile
food vendor unit;
   H.   No mobile food vendor unit shall expose any pedestrian to any undue
safety or health hazards nor shall it be maintained so as to create a public
nuisance;
   I.   No mobile food vendor unit shall ever be left unattended while on
public property;
   J.   Mobile food vendor units shall not be stored, parked or left overnight
on any city property;
   K.   All mobile food vendor units shall install an in industry approved
grease trap or interceptor. Foods, oils and greases shall never be discharged
into the city’s sewer or storm drains, or city owned trash receptacles, nor on
any public or private property;
   L.   No mobile food vendor shall provide seating for customers while
operating on public property;
   M.   No mobile food vendor unit shall have a drive-through; and
   N.   No mobile food vendor unit shall sell alcohol.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-21: RESTRICTION ON USE AND PERMITS:
The city of Princeton has exclusive authority to restrict the use of mobile
food vendor units and the issuance of permits for mobile food vendor units
under the following conditions:
   A.   The city may restrict the use of mobile food vendor units in certain
designated areas of the city at any time in the event of an emergency declared
by the mayor, the chief of police, the fire chief and/or and duly appointed
designee; and
   B.   Absent an emergency, the city may restrict the use of mobile food
vendor units in areas that would typically allow operation after providing
affected mobile food vendor unit permit holders written notice of the
restriction at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of the restriction going
in to effect.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-22: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any mobile food vendor unit permit issued under this chapter may be suspended
or revoked by the mayor if the mayor finds any of the following to be true:
   A.   The vendor failed to permit an inspection by a city representative,
and/or police officer or fire department personnel or by the county or state
health department;
   B.   An inspection reveals that the vendor is not operating in a manner that
is safe to the health, safety and welfare of the public;
   C.   The mobile food vendor unit is operating or has operated in a location
within the city that is not permitted;
   D.   The mobile food vendor unit failed to abide by a city official’s or
police officer’s request to relocate due to the vendor blocking, obstructing or
interfering with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian flow;
   E.   An operator of the mobile food vendor unit vehicle is convicted of
moving violations while operating under a mobile food vendor unit permit while
in the city of Princeton;
   F.   The mobile food vendor unit has failed to maintain all the
certificates, licenses and permits required by state, county or local
ordinances, or is not in compliance with the state, county or city’s laws and
regulations, including but not limited to the Illinois department of public
health food service sanitation code and any other state, county or city
regulations that apply to mobile food vendor units;
   G.   If a mobile food vendor unit fails to report to the Illinois department
of revenue, for the purpose of sales tax, that Princeton is the point of sale
on all transactions that occur while operating in the city of Princeton, which
would result in the city of Princeton not receiving due sales tax revenue;
   H.   The mobile food unit or unit has otherwise violated or failed to comply
with this chapter.
   I.   Appeal: If the mayor suspends or revokes the mobile food vendor unit’s
permit, city of Princeton staff will mail a notice of suspension or revocation
to the address listed on the permit application and will state the reasons for
the suspension or revocation. The mobile food vendor unit may appeal a decision
of the mayor to the city council within fourteen (14) days of the mailing date.
The city council shall hear the appeal within thirty (30) days, and the
decision of the city council will be final.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-23: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   In addition to suspension or revocation of a permit, any person,
partnership, limited liability company or corporation that violates any
provision of this chapter, shall also be subject to the following penalties:
Operating a mobile food vendor unit without a valid city of Princeton permit
   First offense                                           $400
   Second offense within any 12-month period               $500
   Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month  $750
period
Failure to comply with any other provision of this chapter
   First offense                                           Written warning
   Second offense within any 12-month period               $200
   Third offense within any 12-month period                $400
   Fourth offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month $750
period
 
   B.   If a mobile food vendor is fined a monetary amount under either
category above, the mobile food vendor unit’s permit will be suspended until
such time that the fine is paid in full, or the city’s adjudication court
issues a final ruling on the citation should the food vendor choose to contest
the citation. Should the adjudication court rule in favor of the mobile food
vendor, their permit will be re-instated without further consideration.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
3-10-24: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
   A.   The city of Princeton reserves the right to change, modify, clarify any
section and subsection of this chapter at any time deemed necessary.
   B.   If an unforeseen issue presents itself that is not addressed in this
chapter, the city of Princeton reserves its sole right to resolve at its
discretion.
   C.   Any change or modification or clarification to any section and
subsection of this chapter that is deemed to be restrictive to mobile food
vendor units, will go into effect the following January upon passage of an
amendment to this chapter.
   D.   Any change or modification or clarification to any section and
subsection of this chapter that is deemed to be beneficial to mobile food
vendor units will go into effect immediately, upon passage of an amendment to
the chapter.
   E.   The foregoing notwithstanding, any change or modification that arises
out of a health or safety concern, regardless whether it benefits or further
restricts mobile food vendor units, shall be immediate.
(Ord. O-21-015, 6-7-2021; Ord. O-21-024, 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 11: SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMITTING
Section
3-11-1: Food And Non-Alcoholic Beverage Sidewalk Café Permitting
3-11-1: FOOD AND NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMITTING:
   A.   Businesses that wish to operate a sidewalk café shall submit an
application for a sidewalk café permit in a form approved by the city and
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall include:
      1.   Proof that the applicant holds a valid retail food establishment
license issued by the Bureau county health department;
      2.   Proof of insurance as required by this section;
      3.   A dimensional plan for the sidewalk café, complying with all
applicable regulations, and demonstrating that the sidewalk café shall not
unreasonably interfere with adequate pedestrian flow, access to building
entrances, pedestrian and traffic safety and aesthetic quality of the
surrounding area, which plan shall depict the sidewalk and all public
improvements such as light posts, seating, benches, planters, trees, location
of the curb relative to the building, and the proposed location of all
furniture describing the furniture by height, color and type of material; and
      4.   Proof of insurance as required by this section.
   B.   Sidewalk café means a portion of an immobile retail food establishment
located on a public right of way/sidewalk, whether directly adjacent thereto,
or in close proximity to, the licensed premises which contains seating and
serves food.
   C.   Upon permit approval, but prior to issuance, each applicant for a
permit shall furnish a certificate of insurance evidencing commercial general
liability issuance of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
per occurrence. The insurance shall provide for thirty (30) days prior written
notice to the city of Princeton if coverage is changed, canceled or non-
renewed. The city of Princeton shall be named as an additional insured on a
primary, noncontributory basis for any liability arising directly or indirectly
from the operations of a sidewalk café, and the permittee shall indemnify,
defend and hold the city harmless from any loss that results, directly or
indirectly, from the date of permit issuance.
   D.   A sidewalk café permit shall be for the exclusive use of the licensed
premises, and may not be assigned.
   E.   All applications for permit shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator. If the zoning administrator finds the applicant meets the
requirements of this section, he or she shall cause the sidewalk café permit to
issue. If the zoning administrator finds the applicant fails to meet the
requirements of this section, he or she shall deny the application. An
unsuccessful applicant shall be notified in writing of the denial and the
reasons therefore within ten business days after denial. The denial of an
application by the zoning administrator may be appealed to the city council
within thirty (30) calendar days of such denial.
   F.   Each sidewalk café shall comply in all respects with the specifications
set out in the plan, and with all other components of the application.
   G.   Businesses shall be responsible for keeping sidewalk café area orderly,
clean, and free of litter.
   H.   No smoking shall be allowed in the sidewalk café area.
   I.   A minimum five (5) foot wide direct pedestrian sidewalk route shall be
maintained in front of all businesses. The route shall be unencumbered by
existing permanent obstructions such as street signs, utility poles, benches,
streetscaping, etc.
   J.   Temporary fencing, confining the outdoor dining area, will be required
for cafes with more than two (2) tables.
   K.   Outdoor furniture should be of sufficient quality as to not create a
windblown hazard.
   L.   A sidewalk café permit fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) will be due at
the time of application.
   M.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense, and each day such a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   O.   In addition to fines, the violation of any provision of this section
shall subject the permittee to revocation of the sidewalk café permit.
(Ord. O-17-006, 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 12: HOTELS AND MOTELS
Section
3-12-1: Minimum Requirements For Short Term Lodging Enterprises
3-12-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR SHORT TERM LODGING ENTERPRISES:
Minimum requirements for short term lodging enterprises (STLE), outside of
conventional hotel/motel environments:
   A.   Owners of STLE shall provide a correctly-rated fire extinguisher within
the rented unit. A functioning smoke detector shall be affixed in the sleeping
rooms and adjoining hallway of a rented unit.
   B.   Off-street parking shall be required for renters. No on-street parking.
   C.   Covered waste receptacles of such volume and style as to be compatible
with waste collections vehicles, shall be provided.
   D.   STLE shall be a permitted use in Business B-1, Business B-2, and
Business B-3 zoned districts. STLE shall be a Special Use in Residential-zoned
districts.
   E.   All STLE shall be registered with the City of Princeton, Office of the
City Clerk, prior to commencement of rental. No fee shall be levied.
   F.   All STLE shall be subject to the City of Princeton Hotel/Motel tax of
five percent (5%) per stay, as amended, paid to the City of Princeton on a
monthly basis. Compliance with tax collections will be monitored by the City of
Princeton Tourism Department.
   G.   Existing STLE are grandfathered and not be required to file a Special
Use Petition. However, all STLE shall comply with all above items.
(Ord. O-23-003, 3-6-2023)
TITLE 4: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1: NUISANCES
Section
4-1-1: Definition
4-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-3: Certain Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
4-1-5: Investigations; Entry Powers
4-1-6: Notice To Officials Of Nuisance Conditions
4-1-7: Abatement Procedures And Costs
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the word “nuisance” means any thing, act, omission,
occupation or condition which shall exist or continue for such length of time
as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public;
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property;
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body of water or
other public way or place.
(1989 Code § 9-131)
4-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, willfully or negligently, to create,
erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere within the city.
(1989 Code § 9-132)
4-1-3: CERTAIN NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Offensive Conditions: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a
danger to the health, safety, welfare, peace and comfort of the city and its
residents for any person to:
      1.   Conduct any business or to use any premises so as to create an
offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous to persons
in the vicinity.
      2.   Keep or maintain any animal in an unclean or filthy manner or
surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animal from which emits any
particularly foul or offensive odors.
      3.   Cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon any premises or
place any animal carcass or any offal, filth, excretion or other noisome or
noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to become, putrid,
foul or offensive.
      4.   Cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon any premises or
place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive.
      5.   Cause or permit any cellar, vault, cistern, drain, privy, yard or
other premises whatsoever to become, from any cause, foul or offensive or
injurious to the public health.
      6.   Permit to be collected or to stand upon any premises any foul or
stagnant water of any kind.
      7.   Locate or maintain, or permit to exist or remain, anywhere within
the city, any stable or pigsty.
      8.   Use, deposit or keep any property, substance or thing emitting or
causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous or noxious odor, effluvia or
stench particularly repulsive to the physical senses and which annoys,
discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety of any person.
(1989 Code § 9-137)
   B.   Rubbish, Garbage, and Debris:
      1.   The following definitions shall apply to this section:
         a.   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
         b.   LITTER: Garbage, refuse, or rubbish and all other waste material
that is thrown or deposited as prohibited by this section.
         c.   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except
body waste, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, and solid
market and industrial waste.
         d.   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes such as paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, construction
debris, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
      2.   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit the deposit or accumulation of any
garbage, litter, refuse, oily rags, rubbish or other materials or substances of
any kind so as to constitute a fire hazard.
      3.   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any owner or person in control
of any property within the city to store or permit or allow the storage of
litter on or about such premises. This shall not prohibit the storage of litter
in receptacles for collection. No person shall sweep or deposit any litter into
the street, gutter or other public place from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Any owner or person in control of property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their property free of litter.
      4.   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to throw or deposit
litter or any offensive substance on any street, sidewalk or public place, or
on any private property, except in receptacles for the collection of such
litter, or as may otherwise be permitted by ordinance.
      5.   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to store, keep or
maintain outside of a closed building any litter; junk; machinery or equipment,
or parts thereof, not in an operable condition; furniture designed for indoor
use; scrap metal; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a
properly licensed junk yard or other permitted outdoor storage use which is in
full compliance with all of the ordinances of the city.
      6.   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any owner or person in control
of any property within the city to store or place any litter, junk or other
similar materials on such property in a manner that may harbor pests, vermin,
rodents, or other undesirable non-domesticated animals.
(1989 Code § 9-138)
   C.   Nuisance Greenery: It is hereby declared a nuisance for any owner or
person in control of any parcel of land to permit thereon the presence of
nuisance greenery; provided, however, that this section shall not be construed
to prohibit the presence of cultivated trees, cultivated shrubs, cultivated
vegetable plants or cultivated flower plants.
      1.   For purposes of this chapter, “nuisance greenery” means any of the
following:
         a.   Annual plants or grasses of more than eight (8) inches in height.
         b.   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur,
poison ivy, poison oak, stinging nettles or other weeds of a like kind.
         c.   Nuisance bushes or trees including, without limitation, volunteer
bushes or trees and bushes or trees the growth of which could affect the
structural integrity of foundations, driveways, sidewalks or other structures.
         d.   Limbs or branches of plants, bushes or trees which could
adversely affect traffic safety, interfere with or obstruct the use of public
sidewalks or pathways, interfere with the operation, use or maintenance of
utility lines, or otherwise affect the public health, safety and welfare.
         e.   Diseased or infested bushes and trees, including without
limitation those affected by Dutch elm disease or emerald ash borer.
         f.   Dead trees, bushes, grasses or other dead vegetation, including
landscape or garden waste; provided, however, that this section shall not apply
to properly maintained compost piles that are kept in an opaque container not
larger than six (6) feet wide and four (4) feet high.
         g.   Dry grass, weeds, trees, bushes, or other vegetation that
constitute a fire hazard.
         h.   Overgrowth of vegetation likely to harbor rats, vermin, mosquitos
or other pests.
         i.   The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth upon any property
of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like substances of any
kind so as to constitute a fire hazard.
(1989 Code § 9-138)
      2.   Every owner of real estate within the city shall cut weeds or grass,
trim trees or bushes and otherwise remove nuisance vegetation at all such times
as may be necessary. It shall be the responsibility of each owner or person in
control of any parcel to prevent the growth of or to remove nuisance greenery
from such parcel. It shall not be a defense to a violation of this section that
the owner did not have actual knowledge of the existence of nuisance greenery.
   D.   Abandoned Containers: It is hereby declared a menace to the public
safety and a nuisance for any person to cause or permit the existence or
storage in any place accessible to children of any abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep freeze or other airtight appliance or
container of any kind of a capacity of one and one-half (1-1/2) cubic feet or
more, which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch.
(1989 Code § 9-140)
   E.   Dusty Conditions:
      1.   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
      2.   Every person engaged in the hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders,
ashes, earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the
moving, rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil
and the like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest
and prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other
materials used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject
to the supervision and approval of the superintendent of streets.
(1989 Code § 9-141)
   F.   Scaffolding, Ladders And Articles Thereon: It is hereby declared a
menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any person:
      1.   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
      2.   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same may
fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
(1989 Code § 9-142)
   G.   Certain Furniture And Mattresses In The Open: It shall be declared a
nuisance to use, keep or store any upholstered furniture, including mattresses,
manufactured primarily for indoor use in any yard and/or unenclosed porch.
(Ord. O-16-007, 6-6-2016)
   H.   Other Nuisances: Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or
other provisions of this code or ordinances of the city shall be enforceable
under the provisions of this chapter as if enumerated specifically herein.
(1989 Code § 9-134)
Cross-reference:
   See also subsection
8-5-9A of this code
4-1-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances of the
city.
(1989 Code § 9-133)
4-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire and health officers and inspectors and the zoning administrator to
investigate, confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, such officials
shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any reasonable hour and in
a reasonable manner, which may include obtaining a warrant, to visit and enter
into or upon any premises or property within the city to make an examination
thereof if they shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance
exists.
(1989 Code § 9-135; amd. 2017 Code)
4-1-6: NOTICE TO OFFICIALS OF NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire or health officers or inspectors or the zoning administrator,
notice shall be given to the owner or person in control of the property or
premises involved, and to the appropriate city officials whose functions
include the abatement of such nuisances.
(1989 Code § 9-136; amd. 2017 Code)
4-1-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES AND COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Whenever any health official or inspector, or the zoning
administrator, or any police or fire officer or code enforcement officer
determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or premises, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, that officer official shall cause a
written notice to be served upon the owner or, if the owner cannot be found,
upon the occupant or person in control of the property or premises who is
causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance.
(1989 Code § 9-181; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   The notice shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his or her duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time
provided therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state
that if the nuisance is abated by the city, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided in subsection D of this section.
(1989 Code § 9-181)
      3.   Service of the notice required by this subsection A shall be by
personal service or by certified mail addressed to the owner or occupant of the
premises. If the property is vacant and unoccupied and the owner cannot be
located after reasonable inquiry such that personal service or service by
certified mail cannot be had, then service may be had by posting a copy of the
notice in a conspicuous place within or upon the property or premises.
   B.   Time To Abate; Failure To Comply:
      1.   Any person determined to have created, caused, erected, maintained
or permitted a nuisance to exist within the city shall discontinue and abate
such nuisance within five (5) days or such other time period as may be
specified in the notice described in subsection A of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to neglect, refuse or otherwise
fail to comply with the provisions of subsection B1 of this section, and each
twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which the nuisance
continues or exists beyond the period for abatement set forth in the notice
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1989 Code § 9-182)
   C.   Abatement By City:
      1.   Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, occupant or person
in control of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice,
the proper city officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance.
      2.   Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent
or immediate danger to the public health or safety; or b) exists on public
property, the proper city officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any five (5) day or other time
period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor. However, in
situation a above, the officer shall have first applied for and obtained the
written permission of the mayor for such summary abatement.
(1989 Code § 9-183)
   D.   Abatement Costs:
      1.   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the city
pursuant to the provisions of subsection C of this section shall be deemed a
debt to the city by the owner, occupant or person in control of premises upon
which such nuisance existed; provided, that where specifically provided in this
code or by statute, such costs and expenses shall become a lien upon the real
estate or personal property affected, superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens. The cost of preparing and filing such lien may
be added to the costs of abatement or removal.
      2.   If costs of abatement as provided for in this section remain unpaid,
the city may, at its option, exercise any right or remedy available to it by
statute or this code, including without limitation, the filing of a lien as
provided herein or by statute, or the commencement of proceedings in the
Circuit Court of Bureau County seeking a personal judgment against the owner or
person in control of the property where the abatement costs were incurred. The
city attorney shall enforce by civil action any and all such debts or liens as
provided in this subsection.
   E.   Enforcement of Liens: A lien under this subsection may be enforced by
proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or mechanics’ liens. In the
event the city initiates proceedings to foreclose a lien under this subsection,
the owner shall be liable for any attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the
city in connection with such proceedings. Such attorneys’ fees and costs shall
be added to the amount of any judgment rendered in such proceedings in favor of
the city and against the owner. A failure to file a foreclosure action shall
not in any way affect the validity of the lien against the underlying parcel.
(1989 Code § 9-184)
4-1-8: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. The penalty specified in this section shall be in addition to
liability for any expenses incurred in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
CHAPTER 2: OPEN BURNING
Section
4-2-1: Open Burning Generally
4-2-2: Exemptions
4-2-3: Burning On Public Ways And Property
4-2-4: Smoke From Burns
4-2-5: Penalty
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
4-2-1: OPEN BURNING GENERALLY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall cause or permit
the open burning of any item or material within the city. For purposes of this
chapter, “open burning” means the combustion of any matter in such a way that
the products of combustion, including, but not limited to, partially burned
particles, cinders or sparks, are emitted to the open air.
4-2-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are not subject to the general prohibition set forth
in section
4-2-1:
   A.   The burning of leaves and other landscape waste on the property or
premises on which such waste was generated during the period beginning on April
1 and ending on May 1 of each year and during the period beginning on October 1
and ending on November 30 of each year; except, that no burning shall be
permitted on Mondays and Fridays. No burning shall be permitted before seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. or after five o’clock (5:00) p.m. The above times for
burning may be expanded, shortened or abolished as follows:
      1.   If the fire chief in his or her discretion determines that
conditions will not permit the safe and proper burning of leaves and other
landscape waste, he or she may, by written notice posted at city hall and
distributed through such media as the fire chief deems appropriate, entirely
prohibit the burning of leaves and other landscape waste during all or a
portion of the period when such burning would otherwise be authorized by this
subsection A.
      2.   If the fire chief in his or her discretion determines that due to
unusual seasonal conditions it would be appropriate to allow the burning of
leaves and other landscape waste at times other than those specified in this
subsection A, he or she may, by written notice posted at city hall and
distributed through such media as the fire chief deems appropriate, extend the
above specified time periods for the burning of leaves and other landscape
waste for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days prior to or
subsequent to the times specified in this subsection A.
      3.   No person shall burn leaves or other landscape waste, regardless of
whether such burning would otherwise be authorized by this subsection A, if, in
the judgment of the fire chief or his or her designee, the burning of such
material creates a general health hazard, creates a special health hazard for
any nearby person who encounters or may encounter the products of combustion or
endangers any adjoining building, structure or other property by the
communication of smoke or fire.
      4.   For purposes of this subsection A, “landscape waste” means
accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs and other
materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and
trees.
   B.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces in areas where such burning is consistent
with other laws; provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
Campfires or fires for recreational purposes must be set in an adequate
container assembled or premanufactured for such use and, if premanufactured,
set according to manufacturer’s specifications, or a fire bowl of earth or
other noncombustible of adequate assembly and construction, and, a minimum
distance of ten (10) feet from weeds, grass or other combustible materials and
twenty (20) feet from any adjacent residence so as to present no hazard. Such
fires shall also be attended at all times by a person of eighteen (18) years of
age or older.
   C.   Small open flames for heating tar and for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like.
   D.   Bonfires for the purpose of public or private school activities shall
be permitted on school grounds, and subject to regulation of the fire chief.
   E.   Any burning activity for which a permit has been obtained in compliance
with the Illinois environmental protection act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) and the
rules and regulations of the Illinois pollution control board related to open
burning (35 Ill. Admin. Code Part 237).
4-2-3: BURNING ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any
leaves, straw, rubbish or other combustible material within the roadways of any
street or alley or on any sidewalk within the city.
(1989 Code § 10-229)
   B.   Bonfires:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall make or assist in making any
bonfires in or upon any public street or place within the city without the
permission of the chief of police, or as otherwise authorized in this code.
(1989 Code § 9-10)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
4-2-4: SMOKE FROM BURNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, landscape materials
or other combustible material or anything whatsoever within the city in such a
manner as to cause a smudge or smoke across or upon any public street within
the city of such density as to obstruct the view of persons passing on such
street.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, landscape materials
or any combustible material whatsoever within the city either on private
property or on a street or public property in the city in such a manner as to
cause smoke to be spread in any residence community from six o’clock (6:00)
p.m. until dawn on the following day.
(1989 Code § 10-230)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 9-2)
CHAPTER 3: SMOKING IN PUBLIC
Section
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Nonsmoking Areas Designated
4-3-3: Authority To Designate Other Nonsmoking Areas
4-3-4: Posting Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays
4-3-5: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-6: Enforcement And Complaints
4-3-7: Penalties; Injunctions
4-3-8: Discrimination Prohibited
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten percent
(10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises.
“Bar” includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges,
adult entertainment facilities and cabarets.
EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct
or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or her
services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity, that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with:
   A.   Solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways; or
   B.   Solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors.
ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational or
other events.
GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: “Gaming equipment/supplies” as defined in the
Illinois gaming board rules of the Illinois administrative code.
GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of gaming
and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists and all specialists
within these professions. “Healthcare facility” includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any area under the control of a public or private employer
that employees are required to enter, leave or pass through during the course
of employment including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to places of
employment, including a minimum distance, as set forth in section
4-3-2 of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference rooms and classrooms;
break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A private residence or home
based business, unless used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, adult
care, or other similar social service care on the premises, is not a “place of
employment”.
PRIVATE CLUB:
   A.   A not for profit association that:
      1.   Has been in active and continuous existence for at least three (3)
years prior to the effective date hereof, whether incorporated or not;
      2.   Is the owner, lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof
used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
      3.   Is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic,
political, benevolent or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain; and
      4.   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation.
   B.   For purposes of this definition, “private club” means an organization
that is managed by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body
chosen by the members at an annual meeting, has established bylaws, a
constitution, or both, to govern its activities, and has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. 501.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling including,
without limitation, a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a “private residence”.
PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to the
public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or in
part by private persons or entities, the state of Illinois, or any other public
entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission, including a
minimum distance, as set forth in section
4-3-2 of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. A “public place” does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other
similar social service care on the premises. A “public place” includes, but is
not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls,
public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums,
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools,
exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming
facilities, all government owned vehicles and facilities, including buildings
and vehicles owned, leased, or operated by the state or state subcontract,
healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service
establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel,
resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public accommodations
that are rented to guests, but excludes private residences.
RESTAURANT:
   A.   An eating establishment including, but not limited to, coffee shops,
cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias, that
gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees; and
   B.   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
   C.   “Restaurant” includes a bar area within the restaurant.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental.”Retail tobacco store” does not include a tobacco
department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment
with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of any
kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs or any other
lighted smoking equipment.
(1989 Code § 9-201) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-2: NONSMOKING AREAS DESIGNATED:
   A.   No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of employment
or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or place of
employment.
   B.   No person shall smoke in any vehicle owned, leased or operated by the
state or a political subdivision of the state.
   C.   An owner or employer shall reasonably assure that smoking is prohibited
in indoor public places and work places unless specifically exempted by section
4-3-5 of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-202)
   D.   Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15')
from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this chapter so as to ensure
that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open
windows, or other means.
(1989 Code § 9-211)
(Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-3: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place
or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is
also prohibited; provided, that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in
subsection
4-3-4A of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-204) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-4: POSTING SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS:
   A.   Signs Posted:
      1.   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
      2.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   B.   Ashtray Removal Required: All ashtrays shall be removed from any area
where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager or
other person having control of the area.
(1989 Code § 9-203) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in the
following areas:
   A.   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a childcare,
adult daycare or healthcare facility or any other home based business open to
the public.
   B.   “Retail tobacco stores”, as defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, in operation prior to the effective date hereof. The
retail tobacco store shall annually file with the city, by January 31, an
affidavit stating the percentage of its gross income during the prior calendar
year that was derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes or other smoking devices for smoking tobacco and
related smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that begins operation
after the effective date hereof may only qualify for an exemption if located in
a freestanding structure occupied solely by the business, and smoke from the
business does not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
   C.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms; provided, that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous, and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms.
   D.   Common smoking rooms in long-term care facilities operated under the
authority of the Illinois department of veterans’ affairs or licensed under the
nursing home care act that are accessible only to residents who are smokers and
have requested in writing to have access to the common smoking room where
smoking is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the
long-term care facility.
(1989 Code § 9-205) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-6: ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The city police department shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter and may assess fines as hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Complaints: Any person may register a complaint with the city police
department for a violation of this chapter. The city shall establish a
telephone number that a person may call to register a complaint under this
subsection.
(1989 Code § 9-206) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-7: PENALTIES; INJUNCTIONS:
   A.   Penalties:
      1.   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who
violates section
4-3-2 of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to this section. Each day that a
violation occurs is a separate violation.
      2.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under
section
4-3-2 of this chapter shall be fined an amount not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A
person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or place of
employment that violates section
4-3-2 of this chapter shall be fined:
         a.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first violation;
         b.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second violation within
one year after the first violation; and
         c.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each additional
violation within one year after the first violation.
(1989 Code § 9-207)
   B.   Injunctions: The city police department, or any individual personally
affected by repeated violations, may institute, in a circuit court, an action
to enjoin violations of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-208) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
4-3-8: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of the
exercise of any rights afforded by this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-209) (Ord. O-3-09-2-17, 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 4: GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
Section
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Use Prohibited; Exceptions
4-4-3: Memorandum Of Understanding
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision except the city of Princeton, or any other legal
entity, or their representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes or
preparing foods, watering lawns or gardens in which produce intended for human
consumption is grown.
(1989 Code § 13-85) (Ord. O-17-22, 11-6-2017)
4-4-2: USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Except for such uses or methods in existence before November 6, 2017, the use
of or attempted use of groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city
of Princeton, as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly
includes the city of Princeton.
(1989 Code § 13-85) (Ord. O-17-22, 11-6-2017)
4-4-3: MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING:
The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Illinois environmental protection agency in which the
city assumes responsibility for tracking all sites that have received no
further remediation determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying the
Illinois EPA of changes to this chapter, and taking certain precautions when
siting public potable water supply wells.
(1989 Code § 13-85)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this section will be subject to a fine
of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day for each violation.
(1989 Code § 13-85) (Ord. O-17-22, 11-6-2017)
CHAPTER 5: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL REMOVAL AND ABATEMENT
Section
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Authority To Remove Or Abate
4-5-3: Liability For Costs Of removal Or Remedial Action
4-5-4: Supervision Or Verification By Fire Chief
4-5-5: Costs
4-5-6: Nonexclusive Remedies
4-5-7: Burden Of Liability
4-5-8: State Reimbursement
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: A substance or material in a quantity and form determined
by the United States department of transportation to be capable of posing an
unreasonable risk to health and safety or property when transported in commerce
and hazardous substance or waste as defined by the environmental protection
act.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT: Any emergency or nonemergency circumstance
involving the sudden release or threatened or potential release of hazardous
material which, in the judgment of an appropriate governmental agency,
threatens imminent and irreparable harm to the environment or the health,
safety or welfare of any individual other than individuals exposed to the risk
associated with hazardous material in the normal course of their employment.
RELEASE: Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or
disposing into the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Actions consistent with permanent remedy taken instead of or
in addition to removal actions in the event of a release or threatened release
of a hazardous substance into the environment, to prevent or minimize the
release of hazardous substances so that they do not migrate to cause
substantial danger to present or future public health or welfare or the
environment.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous material or improperly
stored hazardous material from the environment; such actions as may be
necessary to be taken in the event of the threat of release of hazardous
material into the environment; such actions may be necessary to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous material; the
disposal of removed material; or the taking of such other actions as may be
necessary to prevent, minimize or mitigate to the public health or welfare or
environment which may otherwise result from a release or threat of a release.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
Statutory reference:
   Environmental protection act, see 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
4-5-2: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND ABATE:
The fire chief or his or her authorized representative is authorized to
response to any actual or threatened release, discharge or deposit upon or onto
property or facilities within the city, or in any location under the
jurisdiction of or serviced by the fire department of the city, including, but
not limited to, removal and/or remedial action.
4-5-3: LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF REMOVAL OR REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   The following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable
to the city for the payment of all costs incurred by the city as a result of
such removal or remedial action, subject only to the defenses set forth in
subsection B of this section:
      1.   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of hazardous materials.
      2.   Any person who at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material owned or operated the facility or vessel used
for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
      3.   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials.
      4.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous material for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities or sites from which
there is a release or a substantial threat of a release of a hazardous
material.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
   B.   There shall be no liability under this section
4-5-3 for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a preponderance of
evidence that the release or substantial threat of release of hazardous
material and any resulting damages occurred under one of the permitted defenses
set forth in 415 ILCS 5/22.2(j).
4-5-4: SUPERVISION OR VERIFICATION BY FIRE CHIEF:
In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntarily or upon the order
of the fire chief or other city official, to remove or abate the effects of any
actual or threatened release of hazardous material upon or onto any property or
facility within the city, the fire chief may take such action as is necessary
to supervise or verify the adequacy of the removal or abatement. The persons
described in section
4-5-2 of this chapter shall be liable to the city for all costs incurred as a
result of such supervision or verification.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
4-5-5: COSTS:
Costs incurred by the city and recoverable under this chapter shall include,
but not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual labor costs of city
personnel, including benefits and administrative overhead; cost of equipment
operation; cost of materials obtained directly by the city and cost of
consultants whose expertise is required to remove or remediate the hazardous
material incident or to assess the nature and extent of the damage done; cost
of equipment operation; replacement cost of vehicles or equipment which, in the
determination of the fire chief, is contaminated beyond reuse or repair;
laboratory costs; cost of materials or equipment obtained directly by the city;
cost of any contract or mutual aid labor and materials; and attorney fees
incurred in collecting monies owed the city by liable parties.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
4-5-6: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDIES:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies or penalties provided by law.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
4-5-7: BURDEN OF LIABILITY:
This chapter shall be liberally construed to give effect to its purpose which
is to shift the burden of liability for the aforesaid removal or abatement
costs from the citizens of the city to those responsible for the incident.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
4-5-8: STATE REIMBURSEMENT:
In the event that the city is not reimbursed by the responsible party as
required herein, if applicable, the fire chief shall make application to the
emergency response reimbursement fund of the state of Illinois pursuant to the
hazardous material emergency response reimbursement act.
(1989 Code § 10-163)
Statutory reference:
   Hazardous material emergency response reimbursement act, see 430 ILCS 55/
1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6: NOISE CONTROL
Section
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Scope
4-6-3: Definitions
4-6-4: Noises Prohibited
4-6-5: Noise Level Tests
4-6-6: Noise Levels Between Properties
4-6-7: Motor Vehicle Noise
4-6-8: Exemptions From Noise Level Restrictions
4-6-9: Enforcement
4-6-10: Violations; Penalty
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace and quiet of the citizens of the city through the
reduction, control and prevention of any noise that unreasonably disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of reasonable
persons of ordinary sensitivity. Nothing in this article shall be construed as
preventing the lawful exercise of the right of free speech protected by the
Constitutions of the United States or the state of Illinois. The city has the
authority to regulate noise as set forth in sections 11-5-2 and 11-60-2 of the
Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   The city council finds that:
      1.   Excessive noise degrades the environment of the city to a degree
which:
         a.   Is harmful and detrimental to the health, welfare and safety of
its inhabitants;
         b.   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life, property and
recreation and with the conduct and operation of business and industry; and
         c.   Causes nuisances.
      2.   No one has any right to create excessive noise.
      3.   Effective control and elimination of excessive noise is essential to
the furtherance of the health and welfare of the city’s inhabitants and to the
conduct of the normal pursuits of life, recreation, commerce and industrial
activity.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All technical
definitions are in accordance with American National Standards Institute:
“A” BAND LEVEL: The total sound level of all noise as measured with a sound
level meter using the “A” weighting network. The unit of measurement is the dB
(A).
AMBIENT NOISE: The all-encompassing noise associated with a given environment,
being usually a composite of sounds from many sources, near and far.
BEL: A unit of level which the base of logarithm is ten (10). Use of BEL is
restricted to levels of quantities proportional to power.
CYCLE: The complete sequence of values of a periodic quantity that occur during
a period.
DECIBEL: One-tenth (0.1) of a BEL and is a unit of level when the base of the
logarithm is the tenth root of ten (10) and the quantities concerned are
proportional to power.
EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger.
PERIOD OF A PERIODIC QUANTITY: The smallest increment of time for which the
function repeats itself.
PERIODIC QUANTITY: An oscillating quantity, the values of which recur for equal
increments of time.
PERSON: Any person, person’s firm, association, copartnership, joint venture,
corporation or any entity public or private in nature.
SOUND ANALYZER: A device for measuring the band pressure level or pressure
spectrum level of a sound as a function of frequency.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument including a microphone, an amplifier, an
output meter and frequency weighting networks for the measurement of noise and
sound levels in a specified manner.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS OF SOUND: Twenty (20) times the logarithm to
the base- 10 of the ratio of the pressure of this sound to be the reference
pressure, which reference pressure must be explicitly stated.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-4: NOISES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-5: NOISE LEVEL TESTS:
The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a violation of
section
4-6-4 of this chapter exists shall include the following:
   A.   The volume of the noise.
   B.   The intensity of the noise.
   C.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual.
   D.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural.
   E.   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any.
   F.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates.
   G.   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates.
   H.   The time of the day or night the noise occurs.
   I.   The duration of the noise.
   J.   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   K.   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial
activity.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-6: NOISE LEVELS BETWEEN PROPERTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to project a sound or noise, excluding noise
emanating from cars, trucks or motorcycles, from one property into another,
which exceeds the limiting noise spectra set forth in this subsection, with the
classification of land being by zoned district. Sound or noise projecting from
one zoned district into another zoned district with a different noise level
limit shall not exceed the limits of the district into which the noise is
projected.
 
Noise Levels for Use Districts
Maximum permissible sound pressure level (dB) of sound emitted to any of the
following zoned districts:
Hours                            Residential Commercial Industrial
Between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. 60          70         85
Between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. 55          65         80
 
      1.   Residential: All single-family and multi-family dwelling units under
R1, R2, R3, RIA, RE and A zoning districts.
      2.   Commercial: All business and commercial uses under B1, B2, B3 and B4
and all nonresidential special uses.
      3.   Industrial: All industrial uses including uses under M1 and M2.
   B.   The measurement of such sound or noise shall be made with a sound level
meter and octave band analyzer meeting the standards prescribed by the American
National Standards Institute, or its successor. The instruments shall be
maintained in calibration and good working order. Octave band corrections may
be employed in meeting the response specification. A calibration check shall be
made of the system prior to the time of any noise measurement and thereafter.
Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper representation
of the noise source. The microphone during measurement shall be positioned so
as not to create any unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured noise.
A windscreen for the microphone shall be used when required. Traffic, aircraft
and other transportation noise sources and other background noises shall not be
considered in taking measurements except where such background noise interferes
with the primary noise being measured.
   C.   The slow meter response of the sound level meter shall be used in order
to best determine that the average amplitude does not exceed the limiting noise
spectra set forth in subsection A of this section.
   D.   The measurement shall be made at the property line of the property on
which such noise is received, five feet (5') aboveground, but such measurement
shall not be made closer than twenty five feet (25') from such noise source.
   E.   In the case of an elevated or directional sound or noise source,
compliance with the noise limits is to be maintained at any elevation at the
boundary, but not closer than twenty five feet (25') from said noise source.
   F.   Occasional outdoor activities exempted. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to occasional outdoor gatherings, shows and sporting and
entertainment events; provided the events are not conducted on a regular basis
and have the appropriate approval from the city (if applicable; i.e. special
event policy).
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-7: MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized vehicle within the city
limits which creates a noise or sound which exceeds the noise level limits set
out below:
Noise Levels for Motor Vehicles
Types of Vehicles Maximum Allowable Limits
Noise Levels for Motor Vehicles
Types of Vehicles              Maximum Allowable Limits
Trucks and buses:               
   Over 10,000 pounds       87 dB(A) measured at 50 feet
                              93 dB(A) measured at 25 feet
   Under 10,000 pounds      80 dB(A) measured at 50 feet
                              86 dB(A) measured at 25 feet
Passenger cars                 78 dB(A) measured at 50 feet
                              84 dB(A) measured at 25 feet
Motorcycles and other vehicles 87 dB(A) measured at 50 feet
                              93 dB(A) measured at 25 feet
 
   B.   The measurement of sound or noise shall be made with a sound level
meter and octave band analyzer meeting the standards prescribed by the American
National Standards Institute. The instruments shall be maintained in
calibration and good working order. Octave band corrections may be employed in
meeting the response specifications. A calibration check shall be made of the
system prior to the time of any noise measurement and thereafter. Measurements
recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper representation of the noise
source. The microphone during measurement shall be positioned so as not to
create any unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured noise. A
windscreen for the microphone shall be used when required. Traffic, aircraft
and other transportation noise sources and other background noises shall not be
considered in taking measurements except where such background noise interferes
with the primary noise being measured.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM NOISE LEVEL RESTRICTIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level regulations:
   A.   Noises or safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure relief
valves installed.
   B.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   C.   Noises resulting from “emergency work”, as defined in section
4-6-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Noises resulting from work performed by governmental agencies or their
agents (road, street, water, sewer repairs or construction) to promote the
public health, welfare and safety.
   E.   Noises resulting from work performed by public utilities.
   F.   Noises resulting from community events including, but not limited to,
parades, festivals, July 4th celebrations, sponsored in whole or part by local
governments, schools, charitable or service organizations.
   G.   Noises in the course of business controlled or within the jurisdiction
of another governmental agency including, but not limited to, FAA, airplanes
and the like.
   H.   Any organized amateur or professional sporting activity.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same manner as
other violations of this city code.
   B.   As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision hereof which
causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or
which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents in the area
shall be deemed, and is declared to be a public nuisance and may be subject to
abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
4-6-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense. Upon conviction of such offense a
person shall be fined in an amount listed below, and each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be deemed punishable as such hereunder. Any person violating section
4-6-6 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined as follows:
 
First violation                          $50
Second violation within 72 hours of a    $100
first violation
Third violation within 72 hours of a     $200
first violation
Fourth violation within 72 hours of a    $400
first violation
Subsequent violations within 72 hours of Subject to a complaint for a permanent
the first violation                      injunction
 
   B.   All fines shall be paid within ten (10) days of the time such alleged
violation or offense was committed, or the alleged violator must appear at the
scheduled administrative hearing date.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-4-2017)
TITLE 5: POLICE, FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
5-1-1: Composition
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Auxiliary Police
5-1-1: COMPOSITION:
The police department shall consist of its chief of police, who shall have
supervision over the department, and such other officers and members as may be
provided by ordinance.
(1989 Code § 10-51)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
chief of police. The chief shall be the chief officer of the police department
and shall be appointed by the city manager.
(1989 Code § 10-52)
   B.   Oath Of Office: The chief of police, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, shall take the oath as nearly as may be in the form provided
in this code for the mayor.
(1989 Code § 10-53)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The chief of police shall:
      1.   Possess all of the statutory powers of a city marshal and shall
possess the power and authority of a constable at common law.
      2.   Devote his or her entire time and energy to the discharge of the
duties of his or her office and shall see that the laws and ordinances are
enforced and that all offenders are properly reported to some proper tribunal
for punishment.
      3.   Be the commanding officer of the entire police force of the city,
subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the city council. He or she
shall assign to all police officers under him or her their different beats or
districts and their respective hours of service and shall see that each officer
performs his or her whole duty according to law and the provisions of this
code. The chief of police in no case shall absent himself or herself from the
city without consent.
      4.   Properly suspend any member of the police department who may be
guilty of impairment, neglect of duty, disobedience of orders or violation of
the standing rules and regulations of the department, and shall immediately
report such suspension. Such officer shall remain in suspension without pay
until such time as he or she may be reinstated by the city council. If not at
once reinstated by the mayor, the mayor shall report such suspension to the
city council as in other cases.
      5.   Attend, either in person or by his or her assistant, all meetings of
the city council and execute all its orders and all warrants or other legal
process required to be executed by him or her under any provision of this code.
      6.   Keep books or records of the police department and of all persons
arrested or committed by the police, showing the time and place of each arrest,
by whom the arrest was made, the offense charged, the proper officer before
whom such person was tried, the disposition of each case, the amount of fine
imposed, if any, and the amount collected, the amount of city officer costs for
serving papers collected, if any, and, in addition, shall record a list of all
monies and valuables taken from each prisoner at the time of his or her
commitment and the disposition thereof.
      7.   Present a monthly written report showing the number of arrests made
by the police force during the preceding month, the name of each person
arrested, the offense charged, the officer making the arrest, the proper
officer before whom tried, the disposition of the case, the fine imposed, if
any, and the amount of such fine. In such report, he or she shall give a list
of all dogs killed and buried, if any, during the preceding month, the name of
the owner, if known, the officer by whom killed and the reason therefor.
      8.   Have the care, custody and control of all books, records, equipment
and all property belonging to the police department and of all stolen goods
seized and retained by police authority. Such books at all times shall be open
to public inspection, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
      9.   Appoint a deputy chief pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
10-2.1-4.
(1989 Code § 10-54)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
1-6-1 of this code
5-1-3: AUXILIARY POLICE:
Auxiliary police may be appointed as follows:
   A.   Appointment: Auxiliary police officers may be appointed to assist the
police department from time to time upon authorization of the city council.
   B.   Auxiliary police shall not be members of the regular police department
and shall possess those powers set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3.1-15-25.
   C.   Duties: Auxiliary police officers will serve and act at the direction
and control of the chief of police and may perform such duties as authorized in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-20.
   D.   Firearms:
      1.   Auxiliary police officers may carry firearms while in uniform and on
duty only when authorized by the chief of police.
      2.   Auxiliary police officers, before entering upon any of their duties,
shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police
procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under
this code. The training and course of study shall be determined and provided by
the corporate authorities of each municipality employing auxiliary police
officers. Before being permitted to carry a firearm, however, an auxiliary
police officer must have the same course of training as required of peace
officers under section 2 of the peace officer and probation officer firearm
training act. The municipal authorities may require that all auxiliary police
officers be residents of the municipality served by them. Before the
appointment of an auxiliary police officer, the person’s fingerprints shall be
taken, and no person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if that
person has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20(b))
   E.   Compensation: Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation
for services rendered.
   F.   Uniforms And Identification: Auxiliary policy officers may wear
uniforms as specified by the chief of police; however, said uniforms and
identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers must be different and
distinct from those worn by regular police officers.
(1989 Code § 10-56)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
5-2-1: Statute Authority
5-2-2: Department Created; Composition
5-2-3: Adoption Of Constitution, Bylaws And Regulations
5-2-4: Duties Of Department
5-2-5: Chief And Deputy Chief
5-2-6: Regulations And Authority At Fires
5-2-7: Mutual Aid Agreements; Service Fee
5-2-8: Firefighters’ Pension Fund
5-2-9: Penalty
5-2-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is promulgated pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6-1.
(1989 Code § 10-143)
5-2-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a fire department in and for the city, which shall
provide fire and emergency services, and shall be designated as the “Princeton
Fire Department”.
(1989 Code §§ 10-144, 10-147)
5-2-3: ADOPTION OF CONSTITUTION, BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS:
The department may adopt and enforce such constitution, bylaws and regulations
for its government and operation which are not inconsistent with law or the
provisions of this code and which shall be approved by the city council.
(1989 Code § 10-147)
5-2-4: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duty of the fire department to:
   A.   Respond to all fire alarms, extinguish any accidental or destructive
fires, prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires within the city and
throughout the jurisdiction of the fire department, and to remain at the scene
of a fire until it has been extinguished.
   B.   Operate the city ambulance service, as provided in chapter 2A of this
title.
   C.   Undertake all other fire and emergency services as may be directed from
time to time by the city manager or the city council.
(1989 Code § 10-145)
5-2-5: CHIEF AND DEPUTY CHIEF:
   A.   Offices Created; Appointment: There are hereby created the offices of
fire chief and deputy fire chief, each of whom shall be appointed by the city
manager.
   B.   Oath And Term: Upon his or her appointment, each officer shall qualify
by taking such oath as may be prescribed by the city council. Each officer
shall serve until his or her removal or until his or her successor shall have
been appointed and qualifies.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The fire chief shall have control, subject to the order and
direction of the city manager, of the fire department and other emergency
apparatus belonging to the city. Whenever any such apparatus needs repairing,
the fire chief shall cause the same to be done without delay.
      2.   The deputy fire chief shall assist the fire chief in the performance
of his or her duties and shall obey his or her orders with regard to the same.
During the temporary absence or disability of the fire chief, the deputy chief
shall perform all duties of the fire chief as set forth in this chapter.
(1989 Code § 10-149)
5-2-6: REGULATIONS AND AUTHORITY AT FIRES:
   A.   Firefighter Disobedience Of Orders: No member of the fire department,
when on duty as a firefighter, shall disobey any lawful order of the officer
then in command. Any member who shall violate the provisions of this subsection
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such offense.
(1989 Code § 10-152)
   B.   Limitation Of Action: At any fire occurring within the corporate limits
of the city, the management and control of all means employed for the
extinguishment of the same shall entirely devolve upon the officer or officers
in command, as in this chapter provided, and only such person or persons as
shall be so directed or ordered by such officers shall enter any burning
building or structure or approach the same within any limits or bounds
established by such officer or officers, and the care, protection and
preservation of all property endangered by any fire shall also devolve upon
such officer or officers and shall only be removed under his, her or their
direction or orders.
(1989 Code § 10-155)
   C.   Removal Of Obstructions: The officer in command may, during the
progress of any fire within the corporate limits of the city, as may be
necessary for the protection of other property or to prevent the fire from
spreading, direct or order that any fence or fences, building or buildings, or
any other obstruction or obstructions be torn down and removed.
(1989 Code § 10-156)
5-2-7: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS; SERVICE FEE:
   A.   Mutual Aid Agreements: Pursuant to law, the city council may enter into
contracts or agreements with other municipalities and fire protection districts
for mutual aid consisting of furnishing equipment and manpower from and to such
other municipalities and fire protection districts.
(1989 Code § 10-153)
   B.   Firefighting Service Fee For Nonresidents: There is hereby fixed a fee
for all firefighting services rendered by the city fire department against
persons, businesses and other entities who are not residents of the city or
municipalities that have entered into intergovernmental cooperation agreements
with the city for ambulance service. The charge for such services shall be as
established by the fire chief from time to time, with the approval of the city
manager.
(1989 Code § 10-161; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   An invoice for any service fee provided for under this section shall be
prepared and mailed to the responsible party promptly after such service has
been rendered, and payment shall be made to the city within thirty (30) days
after the mailing of such invoice. The city attorney is hereby authorized and
directed to take legal action as may be authorized by law or this code to
collect charges which remain unpaid thirty (30) days after the date a bill was
mailed to the responsible party.
5-2-8: FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND:
   A.   Statute Authority: This section is promulgated pursuant to 40 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Fund Created: There is hereby created a firefighters’ pension fund for
the benefit of city “firefighters” as defined in 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/4-106.
(1989 Code § 10-201)
   C.   Administration Of Fund: The firefighters’ pension fund of the city
shall be operated and administered by the firefighters’ pension fund board of
trustees as established in section
2-2-1 of this code.
(1989 Code § 10-202)
Cross-reference:
   See section
2-2-1 of this code for firefighters’ pension fund board of trustees
5-2-9: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who shall violate any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 10-142)
ARTICLE 2A: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
5-2A-1: Statute Authority
5-2A-2: Definitions
5-2A-3: Ambulance Service Established; Private Service Prohibited
5-2A-4: Duties
5-2A-5: Service Charges
5-2A-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This article is promulgated pursuant to the authority established by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-7, as amended.
(1989 Code § 10-177)
5-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE: Applied when the person operating an ambulance is
either responding to a bona fide emergency call or is specifically directed by
a licensed physician to disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance and
for the purpose of the specific trip or journey that is involved.
TRANSFER SERVICE: Applies when a patient or other person is being transported
from one place to another within or without the city in other than an
emergency.
(1989 Code § 10-176)
5-2A-3: AMBULANCE SERVICE ESTABLISHED; PRIVATE SERVICE PROHIBITED:
   A.   There is hereby established the Princeton fire department ambulance
service. Such ambulance service shall be operated by the fire department under
the supervision of the fire chief.
(1989 Code § 10-178)
   B.   No private ambulance service shall be established within the city, and
no such service shall be operated within the city on a continuing basis.
(1989 Code § 10-181)
5-2A-4: DUTIES:
The ambulance service shall provide emergency ambulance service and transfer
service within or without the city when called upon as required in this
article.
(1989 Code § 10-179)
5-2A-5: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Charges for ambulance service shall be at rates established from time
to time by the fire chief with the approval of the city manager.
(1989 Code § 10-180)
   B.   Bills For Service; Payment: Charges for ambulance service shall be
billed by the city to the recipient of such service, and payment shall be made
to the city within thirty (30) days after the mailing of a statement of charges
to such person. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to take
legal action as may be authorized by law or this code to collect charges which
remain unpaid thirty (30) days after the date a bill was mailed to the
responsible party. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the city’s
remedies for collection of delinquent charges under this chapter. The city
shall have the authority to pursue any remedy available at law or under this
code, including but not limited to administrative proceedings pursuant to title
1 chapter 4 article A of this code.
(1989 Code § 10-180)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Interpretation; Breed Specific Prohibited
5-3-3: Number Of Dogs And Cats
5-3-4: Cat Neutering/Spaying Required
5-3-5: Running At Large Restrictions And Prohibitions
5-3-6: Nuisance Animals
5-3-7: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal Provisions
5-3-8: Keeping Of Vicious Dogs
5-3-9: Duty To Report
5-3-10: Rabies Control
5-3-11: Treatment Of Animals
5-3-12: Trapping, Hunting Animals
5-3-13: Riding, Racing Animals Creating A Dangerous Condition
5-3-14: Excrement Removal Required; Exceptions
5-3-15: Indecent Exhibition Of Animals
5-3-16: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ABANDONED DOG OR CAT: Running at large, wearing no collar, tag, or evidence of
ownership, the ownership of which the animal control officer shall be unable to
ascertain after diligent inquiry about the immediate neighborhood in which the
dog or cat was found or located.
ANIMAL: Every living creature, other than man, which may be affected by rabies.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: A person appointed by the city manager to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any dog or cat shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
premises of its owner’s real property and not restrained by a competent person.
BUSINESS DAY: Any day that the animal control facility is open to the public
for animal reclaims or regular business. (Does not include city holidays or
weekends.)
CAT: All members of the family Felidae, male or female, four (4) months of age
or older.
COMPETENT PERSON: A human being that is capable of controlling and governing
the dog or cat in question, or other animal, and to whose commands the dog or
cat is obedient.
CONFINED STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or structure at least six
feet (6') in height designed and constructed for the keeping of a vicious dog
and designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards set
forth in this chapter. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and
a secure top attached to the sides, as well as be suitable to prevent the entry
of young children. All structures used to confine vicious dogs must be locked
with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the structure and
left unattended. Such structures must have a secure bottom or floor attached to
the sides of the pen, or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground
not less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to house vicious dogs must
comply with all zoning and building regulations of the city. All such
structures must be adequately lighted, ventilated and kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
CONSTRAINED: Contained within a fenced enclosure, or within the garage or home
on the owner’s premises, such enclosure to be such where other animals and dogs
would not have access to the animal or dog so constrained.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: The intentional or criminally negligent mistreatment of any
animal by any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering,
or death is caused to or permitted upon such animal.
DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner
or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its owner or
custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses
a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death
to a person or a companion animal; or
   B.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
serious physical injury.
DEPARTMENT: The department of agriculture of the state of Illinois.
DOG: All members of the canine family, male or female, four (4) months of age
or older.
DOMESTIC CAT: Those cats owned by an individual, a household, a business or
corporation. These cats needs are supplied by their owner(s).
IMPOUNDED: Taken into custody of the public animal control facility in the
city, town or county where the animal is found or located.
MICROCHIP: The implanting of a device for identification purposes that can be
detected by an electronic scanner.
NEUTERED OR SPAYED: To cause the animal to no longer be capable of reproducing.
OWNER: Any person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or cat.
RESTRAINT: A dog off the premises of its owner’s real property is under
restraint within the meaning of this chapter, If it is controlled by a line or
leash not more than six feet (6') in length when the line is held by a
competent person;
   A.   When at “heel” of a competent person;
   B.   When within a vehicle being driven, parked or stopped; or
   C.   When not more than fifty feet (50') from a competent person, if such
dog is not annoying or worrying any human or domestic animal or trespassing on
private property or in a public area where dogs or cats are forbidden.
VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the state department of agriculture, of antirabic vaccine approved
by the department.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” on three (3) separate occasions. No dog shall be deemed
vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a trespasser on the property of its
owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it or is a
professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties. Vicious dogs
shall not be classified in a manner that is breed specific.
(1989 Code § 10-271)
5-3-2: INTERPRETATION; BREED SPECIFIC PROHIBITED:
No regulation or ordinance of the city shall be specific to breed.
(1989 Code § 10-286)
5-3-3: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
There shall be no limitations on the number of dogs or cats per dwelling.
Provided, however, that upon determining that any animal or animals pose a
threat to the health and safety of the residents of any such dwelling, or the
neighbors thereof, any animal control officer or police officer of the city can
remove or have removed any dogs or cats, or any other animal(s), until the
identified threat is eliminated.
(1989 Code § 10-282)
5-3-4: CAT NEUTERING/SPAYING REQUIRED:
The owners of all domestic cats within the city who allow such cats outside of
their residence shall have their cats neutered or spayed, and said cats shall
wear a tag or collar indicating compliance with this requirement.
(1989 Code § 10-282)
5-3-5: RUNNING AT LARGE RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person owning,
keeping or possessing any animal, bird or fowl within the city to own, keep or
possess such an animal which is running at large. It shall not be a defense
that the owner or possessor of such an animal did not allow or permit such
animal to run at large. Any animal running at large is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and may be taken up and impounded by the city animal control officer
or any city police officer, and may be redeemed only by paying the appropriate
fees as provided in section
5-3-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Dogs: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, any dog which is
properly licensed and vaccinated as set forth in this chapter, other than dogs
determined to be vicious dogs subject to the provisions of section
5-3-8, may be allowed outside of an enclosure if under a secure leash and
accompanied by its owner or keeper, but is not to be allowed to trespass on any
private property.
   C.   Cats: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, any cat which is
privately owned, has been spayed or neutered, and is properly tagged with an
identification tag provided by the owner or police department, which must
clearly indicate the owner’s name, current address and telephone number, may be
allowed outside of an enclosure. However, if said cat is declared a nuisance or
the city receives a complaint, then said cat will be found to be at large and
impounded if deemed necessary by the animal control officer or police.
(1989 Code § 10-274)
   C.   Poultry Running at Large: Raising, harboring or keeping chickens
(poultry) within the city limits of Princeton is permitted only in agriculture-
zoned districts and residential-zoned districts. Keeping of chickens in
agriculture-zoned districts is unrestricted. Keeping of chickens in
residential-zoned districts is restricted as follows:
      1.   Only the owners of chickens prior to the adoption of this chapter
who reside on lots zoned for single family residential use are eligible for
permitting. Those owners must obtain a permit from the city of Princeton within
sixty (60) days after adoption of this chapter. The permit shall be free of
charge. A renewal permit shall be required on May 1 of each year thereafter,
with no additional fees required. No new chicken permits will be issued after
the sixty (60) day registration period expires. Non-permitted uses will be
subject to enforcement action.
      2.   Roosters are prohibited.
      3.   No more than six (6) chicken hens shall be permitted on lots zoned
and occupied for single family residential use.
      4.   At all times, chicken hens shall be kept within a covered enclosure/
structure (henhouse) with an adjacent outdoor fenced-in area that is no less
than thirty two (32) square feet. Proper fencing material includes clean chain
link, aluminum, wood, manufactured PVC or iron, to prevent poultry from being
at-large on the owner’s property or on neighboring properties. Chicken wire is
not an approved fencing material.
      5.   An outdoor area of a minimum of six (6) square feet per chicken hen
shall be required, and a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet shall be
permitted for both the covered enclosure/structure and outdoor area.
      6.   All enclosures/structures shall be located no closer than ten (10)
feet from all property lot lines.
      7.   Electric service to a hen house shall not be provided by electrical
cord or extension cords.
      8.   All chicken hen enclosures/structures shall be located in the rear
yard.
      9.   All areas where chicken hens are kept shall be clean and well
maintained with little to no accumulation of waste and shall not produce or
cause odors that are detectable on adjacent properties. All areas shall be kept
clean, sanitary and rodent free.
      10.   All feed shall be contained in containers with tightly fitted lids.
      11.   Owner shall ensure that chickens hens do not produce excessive and/
or unreasonable noise.
      12.   Inspection of the premises by city representatives shall be a
condition of permitting.
      13.   No butchering of chickens shall be allowed anywhere on the
property.
      14.   All other poultry, including but not limited to, ducks, geese,
turkeys, and peacocks are prohibited.
      15.   If it is found that a non-eligible chicken occupation exists, or
other noncompliances are evident, and correction has not been made within the
time frame given by city authorities, fines will be levied as follows:
 
First offense                                                 $200
Second offense within any 12-month period                     $500
Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period $750
 
      16.   If there have been three (3) documented violations of any portion
of these guidelines, within any twelve (12) month period, there will be a
revocation of the permit to keep poultry on the property. Keeping poultry on
the property after license revocation will result in a seven hundred fifty
dollar ($750.00) fine per day, and for every day the violation exists. The
eligibility for that lot to raise chickens will be permanently revoked.
      17.   All other poultry, including but not limited to, ducks, geese and
turkeys, are prohibited in residential-zoned districts.
      18.   An initial building permit shall be required for all enclosures/
structures associated with the keeping of chickens. Building permit fees apply.
      19.   Chickens or other fowl shall be prohibited if expressly enumerated
in subdivision protective covenants.
      20.   Chicken uses allowed by permit runs with the land and not the
owner. Owners who move to another residential lot shall be bound by the
circumstances imposed by the new location prior to any allowance or
transference of chickens. If an eligible lot is not inhabited by chickens for
one year or more, then the eligibility for chickens is permanently revoked.
(Ord. O-21-023, 9-20-2021)
5-3-6: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   No keeper or owner of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care and
control of the animal to prevent the animal from becoming a public nuisance.
Any animal doing any of the following is declared a nuisance:
      1.   Excessive, continuous or untimely barking;
      2.   Molesting passersby;
      3.   Biting or attacking any person without provocation on one or more
occasion;
      4.   Chasing vehicles including bicycles;
      5.   Attacking other domestic animals;
      6.   Trespassing upon school grounds or trespassing upon private property
in such manner as to damage property.
   B.   Other nuisances are:
      1.   Foul odors;
      2.   The keeping of unclean or filthy surroundings where an animal is
maintained;
      3.   Any animal matter that is putrid, foul or offensive;
      4.   Animal noises that disturb the public peace; or
      5.   Any animal that is in public that may alarm or disturb the general
public, such as snakes, spiders, lizards etc.
(1989 Code § 10-281)
5-3-7: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impound; Record Information: It shall be the duty of every
police officer and the animal control officer of the city to apprehend any
animal found running at large contrary to the provisions of section
5-3-5 of this chapter and to impound such animal in the city pound or other
suitable place. The animal control officer or some other designated official,
upon receiving any animal, shall make a complete registry, entering the type,
breed (if possible), color and sex of such animal and the location the animal
was found or located. All animals will be scanned for the presence of a
microchip.
(1989 Code § 10-275)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Not later than three (3) days after the
impounding of any animal, an attempt will be made to notify the owner and any
appropriate agencies and/or any not for profit animal organizations, or if the
owner of the animal is unknown, notice shall be broadcast daily for five (5)
days on any radio station broadcasting within the city describing the animal
and the place and time of taking of such animal.
(1989 Code § 10-276)
   C.   Redemption Provisions; Costs: The owner of any animal so impounded may
reclaim such animal upon payment of all costs and charges incurred by the city
for impounding and maintenance of the animal. The charges for the following are
as provided in the city fee schedule and shall be paid to the city: impounding
any animal; keeping any animal; and giving notice. In cases of neutering,
spaying, microchipping and any or all vaccinations, the owner or adopter will
be responsible for these costs before release of the animal.
(1989 Code § 10-276)
   D.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Diseased Animals:
      1.   The animal control officer shall keep animals impounded for a period
of seven (7) days after broadcast of notice if the owner of the dog or cat is
unknown, and for ten (10) days from the date of notice to the owner if the
owner is known. If, at the expiration of notice by broadcast or to the owner,
such dog or cat shall not be redeemed, it may be destroyed.
      2.   Any dog or cat which appears to be infected or suffering from rabies
or other infectious or dangerous disease, as determined by a licensed
veterinarian, shall not be released but may be immediately destroyed.
(1989 Code § 10-277)
5-3-8: KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the city a vicious dog, subject to the following
exceptions and standards:
   A.   Identification of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   a.   Any police officer or animal control officer of the city who
suspects that a dog may be vicious within the meaning of this chapter may
conduct an investigation to determine whether or not the dog has committed any
act or displays any characteristics which qualify it as a vicious dog. If upon
the completion of such investigation the officer concludes that the dog is a
vicious dog, such officer shall issue a written notice of determination which
includes at least the following:
            (1)   A description of the dog;
            (2)   Information available concerning the ownership of the dog;
            (3)   A statement or conclusion that the dog is a vicious dog
within the meaning of this chapter;
            (4)   A description of the investigation conducted by the officer
and what acts or characteristics discovered during the investigation led the
officer to conclude that the dog is a vicious dog;
            (5)   Notice to the owner that the vicious dog must be licensed and
housed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
            (6)   Notice that the owner may appeal the determination of the
officer to the mayor or his or her designee within seven (7) business days
after the determination is served upon the owner.
         b.   The officer shall serve the notice of determination on the owner
by certified mail or hand delivery to the last known address of the owner.
      2.   The owner may appeal any determination that the owner’s dog is a
vicious dog. An appeal must be directed to the city manager and must be filed
by the owner in the office of the city clerk within seven (7) business days
after receipt of the notice of determination which identifies the dog as a
vicious dog. Should the owner fail to appeal the determination within seven (7)
business days, the determination of the investigating officer that the dog is a
vicious dog shall become final. Upon receipt of an appeal, the city manager
shall convene a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the dog in
question is a vicious dog.
      3.   The hearing of an owner’s appeal shall be held within sixty (60)
days of the date on which the appeal is filed. The city manager shall serve a
notice of the time, date and location of the hearing upon the owner of the
allegedly vicious dog at least five (5) business days before the hearing. The
hearing shall be conducted before the city administrative hearing officer
pursuant to the procedures set forth in title 1, chapter 4A of this code,
unless different procedures are set forth in this section. At the hearing, the
owner shall have the opportunity to present evidence to explain why the dog
should not be declared a vicious dog. The owner shall have the right to be
represented by legal counsel at the owner’s expense. The officer who made the
initial determination that the dog is vicious, and any other persons having
knowledge of the facts and circumstances, may be heard by the administrative
hearing officer and shall be subject to cross examination by the owner or the
owner’s attorney. The administrative hearing officer shall decide all issues
for or against the owner of the dog regardless of whether the owner appears at
the hearing.
      4.   Within five (5) business days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the administrative hearing officer shall determine whether or not the dog is a
vicious dog within the meaning of this chapter, and shall notify the owner in
writing of its determination. The decision of the administrative hearing
officer shall be final.
      5.   If any officer of the city determines that the public safety
requires the immediate impoundment of a dog as authorized by this chapter, the
officer shall within a reasonable time notify the owner of the facts and
circumstances relating to the impoundment. Upon receipt of such notification,
the owner may appeal the determination of the officer to the city manager in
accordance with the procedures established hereinabove for the identification
of vicious dogs.
   B.   Licensing of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   No person shall possess any vicious dog for a period of more than
fifteen (15) days after the dog’s designation as vicious is final without
having first obtained an annual vicious dog license therefor from the city.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a vicious dog shall be filed
with the city on a form prescribed and provided by the city and shall be
accompanied by all of the following:
         a.   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner’s driver’s license.
         b.   Proof of ownership of the vicious dog.
         c.   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the
vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of
Illinois.
         d.   Proof that the vicious dog has been spayed or neutered.
         e.   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), insuring said person
against any claim, loss, damage or injury to persons, domestic animals, or
property resulting from the acts, whether intentional or unintentional, of the
vicious dog.
         f.   Two (2) photographs of the vicious dog to be licensed taken not
less than one (1) month before the date of the application. One (1) photograph
shall provide a front view of the vicious dog and shall clearly show the face
and ears of the vicious dog. One (1) photograph shall show a side view of the
vicious dog.
         g.   A license fee of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
         h.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
      3.   Upon receipt of an application, the city clerk shall forward such
application to the city’s animal control officer, who shall cause an inspection
of the premises on which the vicious dog shall be kept to determine that all
provisions of this section relating to confinement and posting of signs have
been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of the inspection, the
code enforcement officer shall notify the city clerk in writing of the results
of its inspection.
      4.   Upon receipt of the results of the inspection, the city clerk shall
notify the applicant of the approval or denial of the license. In the event
that the license is denied, the notification shall be provided in writing and
the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon denial, the owner or keeper
of the vicious dog shall remedy the reasons for denial, if possible, and
immediately reapply within forty-eight (48) hours, or remove the vicious dog
from the municipality within forty-eight (48) hours. Upon approval, the clerk
shall issue a license to the applicant.
      5.   A vicious dog license expires annually. No one shall own, possess,
keep or maintain a vicious dog without applying annually for a new vicious dog
license as provided for in this section to avoid owning, possessing or
maintaining a vicious dog for which the license has expired.
   C.   Confinement of Vicious Dogs: No person shall possess any vicious dog
unless the vicious dog is confined in accordance with this section. Any owner
who has appealed a determination that a dog is vicious shall temporarily
confine such dog in accordance with this section until a final determination
regarding such appeal is issued.
      1.   Confinement Indoors: No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the vicious dog to exit
the structure on its own volition. No vicious dog shall be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing the vicious dog from exiting the structure.
      2.   Confinement in an Exterior Yard: No person shall confine a vicious
dog in an exterior area unless such vicious dog is confined in a confinement
structure constructed and maintained in accordance with this section, except
that a vicious dog may be confined outside of a confinement structure in a
manner set forth in subsection C3 hereof. Such a confinement structure must be
located in an area enclosed and screened by an opaque privacy fence of six (6)
feet in height and composed of wood, metal, vinyl or some other material
designed to completely block the view from both within and without the fenced
area to the other side of the fenced area.
      3.   Confinement on Leash and Run Line:
         a.   No person shall permit a vicious dog to go outside a confinement
structure, house or other structure unless the vicious dog is securely
restrained with a leash no longer than three (3) feet in length and fitted with
a muzzle or securely restrained on a run line no longer than ten (10) feet in
length and fitted with a muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be
kept on a leash unless a person is in actual physical control of the leash. Any
such leash or run line must be enclosed and screened by an opaque privacy fence
of six (6) feet in height and composed of wood, metal, vinyl, or some other
material designed to completely block the view from both within and without the
fenced area to the other side of the fenced area.
         b.   The only time that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure or off the run line are when the dog is in a carrier, crate or other
enclosure designed to and capable of safely confining the dog for
transportation: if it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the vicious dog; or to sell or give away the vicious dog; or to comply
with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The owner or keeper may
also allow the dog out of the enclosure or off the run line to walk the vicious
dog; provided that said vicious dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a
leash having a minimum tensile strength of at least three hundred (300) pounds
and not exceeding three (3) feet in length, and shall be at all times under the
direct physical control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious
dog.
   D.   Impoundment of vicious dogs.
      1.   Any vicious dog which is not properly confined shall be impounded by
a police officer or animal control officer of the city; provided, however, that
if the police officer or animal control officer reasonably believes that such
dog poses an immediate threat of severe injury to any person, such officials
are authorized to kill such dog. Any vicious dog found to be running at large
by any member of the city police department shall be presumed to be in
violation of this section and shall be subject to impoundment.
      2.   If the incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an
injury to a person, upon impoundment by the police department, the chief of
police or his or her designee shall notify the rabies control administrator of
the county pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/12, and shall transfer control of the vicious
dog to the administrator in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/13.
      3.   Any vicious dog that has previously been impounded for not properly
being confined or for running at large in violation of subsection C1, C2 or C3
hereof, or which has previously bitten or attacked a human being or other
domestic animal without provocation, shall be ordered destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner upon any subsequent violations of those
subsections or upon any subsequent unprovoked attack or bite.
   E.   Redemption of Impounded Vicious Dog: An owner of a vicious dog holding
a license pursuant to this section, may redeem an impounded vicious dog if: the
vicious dog has been impounded pursuant to subsection D. of this section; and
the vicious dog has not caused severe injury to a person, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Proof of a valid license issued by the city under subsection B of
this section; and
      2.   Payment of the cost of keeping the vicious dog during the period of
impoundment; and
      3.   Approval by the city code enforcement officer, or Bureau County
animal control of the enclosure in which the vicious dog will be kept.
   F.   Sale or Transfer of Ownership or Location Prohibited: No person shall
sell, barter, offer to breed or in any other way dispose of a vicious dog or
its offspring to any person within the city without approval from a court of
competent jurisdiction, or the city manager, unless the recipient resides
permanently in the same household and on the same premises as the registered
owner of such vicious dog or the recipient is a persons who does not reside
within the city, provided they give written notice to the person who will be
receiving the vicious dog that such dog has been deemed a vicious dog under
this section. An owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall notify the city manager
when he or she moves the vicious dog to a different residence from where he or
she formerly lived, regardless of whether it is in or outside of the city.
   G.   Reporting Requirements of License:
      1.   Any person holding a license pursuant to subsection B of this
section shall report the incidence of any of the following events:
         a.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any vicious dog
shall be reported within forty-eight (48) hours.
         b.   The escape from confinement of any vicious dog shall be reported
upon discovery of the escape.
         c.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious dog
shall be reported immediately upon occurrence.
         d.   The permanent removal of any vicious dog from the territorial
limits of the city shall be reported within forty-eight (48) hours of such
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the city clerk.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the report of any
incident required to be reported under this subsection shall be made to the
city police department.
   H.   Sign Required: All persons possessing a vicious dog shall display in a
prominent place on the premises where a vicious dog is to be kept a sign which
is readable by the public from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100') using the words “Beware of Dog.” A similar sign shall be posted on any
confinement structure.
   I.   Revocation of License: A license granted pursuant to this section shall
be automatically revoked upon the second violation by the licensee of any
provision of this section. In the event of a revocation of the license, the
license fee shall be retained by the city and the vicious dog must be removed
from the municipality within forty-eight (48) hours.
   J.   Spaying or Neutering of Vicious Dog: Within ten (10) days of the
determination that a dog is vicious becomes final, the owner of the vicious dog
shall have it spayed or neutered.
   K.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any K-9 patrol dogs or
police dogs as defined in this chapter.
   L.   Penalties: Any person found to have violated this section shall be
fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Additionally, any person found to have violated
this section shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary
expenses and other expenses necessitated by the seizure of the dog for the
protection of the public, and such other expenses as may be required for the
destruction of any such dog.
   M.   Failure to Comply: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a vicious dog registered with the city to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any vicious dog found to
be the subject of a violation of this section is subject to immediate seizure
and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply may result in the revocation of
the license of such animal resulting in the immediate removal of the animal
from the city.
   N.   Severability: If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or invalid by a
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this section.
(1989 Code § 10-278)
5-3-9: DUTY TO REPORT:
All dog owners, whether or not their dog is licensed as a vicious dog pursuant
to section 5-4-8 of this chapter, receiving notice or having knowledge that
their dog has bitten or attacked a human being or domestic animal without
provocation shall immediately notify the police department of said incident.
5-3-10: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Rabies Crisis:
      1.   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the
dangers of rabies, the mayor, if he or she deems it necessary, shall issue a
proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it
securely on his or her premises, and each such dog shall have a muzzle of
sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person.
      2.   Any dog running at large during the time of the proclamation shall
be seized and impounded unless noticeably infected with rabies and displaying
vicious propensities. If the dog is noticeably infected with rabies, it shall
be killed by a police officer or the animal control officer without notice to
the owner.
(1989 Code § 10-279)
      3.   Dogs impounded during the first two (2) days of such proclamation
shall, if claimed within five (5) days, be released to the owner, unless
infected with rabies, upon payment of the impounding charges provided in the
city fee schedule. If unclaimed after that period, the dog may be summarily
destroyed.
(1989 Code § 10-279)
   B.   Rabies Suspects:
      1.   If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
suspected of having rabies, the dog shall be confined by a leash or chain on
the owner’s premises and shall be placed under observation of a veterinarian at
the expense of the owner for a period of two (2) weeks. The owner shall notify
the animal control officer of the fact that his or her dog has been exposed to
rabies, and at his or her discretion, the animal control officer is empowered
to have such dog removed from the owner’s premises to a veterinary clinic and
there placed under observation for a period of two (2) weeks at the expense of
the owner.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting that a dog
has rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his or her premises or beyond the
limits of the city, except to a veterinary hospital within the county, without
the written permission of the animal control officer. Every owner, or other
person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid shall immediately notify the animal
control officer or a police officer, who shall either remove the dog to the
pound or summarily destroy it.
(1989 Code § 10-280)
   C.   Vaccination Requirements: Any owner, possessor or maintainer of a dog
shall ensure that it is inoculated or vaccinated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law. Further, such person shall keep a certificate of a
veterinarian licensed by the state as proof of such inoculation or vaccination.
The owner of a dog shall provide the dog with a collar or harness made of
leather, metal or other substantial material to which shall be securely
fastened the tag issued by the state rabies inspector, deputy inspector or any
licensed veterinarian showing that such dog has been vaccinated against rabies
during the current or immediately preceding year. A dog found within the city
not wearing the proper collar and tags shall be impounded.
5-3-11: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals: It is unlawful for any person to commit the crime
of cruelty to animals or to overdrive, overload or unnecessarily or cruelly
beat, mutilate, kill, torture or abuse, or cause or procure to be overdriven,
overloaded, cruelly beaten, mutilated, killed, tortured, or abused, any animal.
(1989 Code §§ 9-30,10-284)
   B.   Food, Drink And Shelter: No person in the city shall fail to provide
any animal in his or her charge or custody with necessary sustenance, drink,
and protection from the elements, or cause any of these acts to be done.
   C.   Abandonment: No person in the city shall abandon any animal or cause
such act to be done.
   D.   Fights: No person in the city shall maintain any place where fowl or
any animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition or for the sport upon any
wager.
   E.   Poisoning: No person in the city shall poison any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal, or distribute poison in any manner whatsoever with the
intent or for the purpose of poisoning any dog, cat or other domesticated
animal.
(1989 Code § 9-30)
   F.   Wild Birds: No person in the city shall frighten, shoot at, wound,
kill, take, capture, ensnare, net, trap or in any other manner molest or injure
any wild bird or part thereof (their nest and eggs) as defined in 520 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/2.2.
(1989 Code § 9-30)
5-3-12: TRAPPING, HUNTING ANIMALS:
   A.   Trapping Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to trap or
attempt to trap any animal in the city limits. The animal control officer and
the person designated by the chief of police are the only authorized persons to
trap or attempt to trap animals within the city. The only exception, with prior
notification to the chief of police or his or her designee, would include not
for profit animal organizations.
(1989 Code § 10-285)
   B.   Hunting Animals: No person shall engage in the hunting or killing of
any animal within the city except as prescribed by law.
(1989 Code § 9-13)
5-3-13: RIDING, RACING ANIMALS CREATING A DANGEROUS CONDITION:
Prohibited: No person in the city shall run, ride, drive, race or trot any
horse or other animal in any public street, lane, alley or public place at a
speed or in a manner which is dangerous to any person using such street, lane,
alley or public place or the person’s property.
(1989 Code § 9-9)
5-3-14: EXCREMENT REMOVAL REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat to defecate
on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless
such person has in his or her immediate possession an appropriate depository
for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned
or possessed by the person. This section shall not apply to a person who has
visual or physical disabilities.
(1989 Code § 10-283)
5-3-15: INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS:
Prohibited: No person in the city shall exhibit any studhorse or bull or other
animal indecently, nor shall any person let any male animal to any female
animal except in some place wholly enclosed and out of public view.
(1989 Code § 9-30)
5-3-16: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter may be punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such
offense.
(1989 Code § 10-272)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Aid In Escape
5-4-3: Resisting, Interfering With Police Officer
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, including articles A through E, shall be known and may be cited
as the OFFENSES ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PRINCETON.
(1989 Code § 9-1)
5-4-2: AID IN ESCAPE:
No person in the city shall offer or endeavor to assist any person in the
custody of a police officer, a member of the police department or a person duly
empowered with police authority to escape or to attempt to escape from such
custody.
(1989 Code § 9-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-7
5-4-3: RESISTING, INTERFERING WITH POLICE OFFICER:
No person in the city shall resist any police officer, any member of the police
department, or any person duly empowered with police authority, while in the
discharge or apparent discharge of his or her duty, or in any way interfere
with or hinder him or her in the discharge of his or her duty.
(1989 Code § 9-17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-1
5-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, including articles
A through F, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 9-2)
ARTICLE 4A: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS, HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
5-4A-1: Assault
5-4A-2: Battery
5-4A-3: Disorderly Conduct
5-4A-4: Mob Action
5-4A-5: Loitering
5-4A-6: Disturbing Religious Worship
5-4A-7: Throwing, Discharging Stench Bombs
5-4A-1: ASSAULT:
No person in the city shall commit an assault on the person of another. A
person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(1989 Code § 9-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-1
5-4A-2: BATTERY:
No person in the city shall commit a battery on the person of another. A person
commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly, without legal
justification, and by any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
(1989 Code § 9-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-3
5-4A-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person in the city shall commit the crime of disorderly conduct. A person
commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   B.   With intent to annoy, harass, abuse or threaten the person called,
makes a telephone call, whether or not conversation thereby ensues;
   C.   Calls “911” for the purpose of making or transmitting a false alarm or
complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call or transmission
is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for making the call or
transmission and further knows that the call or transmission could result in
the emergency response of any public safety agency of the city;
   D.   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of the peace or imminent threat of violence;
   E.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him or
her to be a peace officer under circumstances where:
      1.   Three (3) or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct
in the immediate vicinity, which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or
serious inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm; or
      2.   Otherwise peaceful conduct creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of the peace or imminent threat of violence or harm to the public.
   F.   Wanders about and begs or goes about from door to door of private homes
or commercial or business establishments to beg or receive alms for himself or
herself;
   G.   Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that
he or she may endanger himself or herself or other persons or property, or
annoy persons in his or her vicinity;
   H.   Carries in a threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law,
any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles,
slingshot, an object containing noxious or deleterious substance or other
dangerous weapon, or conceals such weapon on or about the person or vehicle;
   I.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department or police department of
the city a false alarm of fire, need for ambulance services, or other
emergency, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable
ground for believing that such fire, need for ambulance services, or other
emergency exists;
   J.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
   K.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, police officer, public
officer or public employee a report that an offense has been, is being, or will
be committed, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no
reasonable ground for believing that such an offense has been committed;
   L.   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening therein; or
   M.   Fights with another person except in boxing exhibitions duly authorized
and licensed under law, or otherwise engages in violent, tumultuous, offensive
or obstreperous conduct in such a way as to disturb or aid the disturbance of
the peace.
(1989 Code § 9-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
5-4A-4: MOB ACTION:
No person in the city shall commit the offense of mob action. Mob action
consists of any of the following:
   A.   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two (2) or
more persons acting together and without authority of law; or
   B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to commit an unlawful act; or
   C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(1989 Code § 9-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/25-1
5-4A-5: LOITERING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   LOITERING: Shall mean remaining, lingering, or staying in a public place in
an aimless or idle manner, and shall include the following activities: sleeping
in motor vehicles or trailers located on public property, or sleeping on
streets, sidewalks, alleys, public ways, parks, or other public property.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Shall mean and include, but not be limited to, all places
commonly known as being distinctively public, such as: public streets, public
restrooms, sidewalks, parks, municipal airports, alleys, and buildings; all
places privately owned but open to the public generally such as: shopping
centers, transportation terminals, retail stores, movie theaters, office
buildings, and restaurants.
   B.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either
alone and/or in consort with others, in a public place:
      1.   In such a manner so as to obstruct any public street, public
highway, public sidewalk, or public alley or way, or any other public place or
building by hindering or impeding, or tending to hinder or impede, the free and
uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   In such a manner so as to obstruct or interfere with to the free and
uninterrupted use of property, or with any business lawfully conducted by
anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any public street, public highway,
public sidewalk, alley, or public way, or any other public place or building,
or to prevent the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, or regress therein,
thereof, and thereto, and no person shall, by his or her presence or by other
means, either alone or in consort with others, interfere with or interrupt the
conduct of business in the offices located in such buildings.
      3.   While engaging in the systematic checking of doors, windows, or
other means of access to buildings, houses or vehicles not belonging to such
person.
      4.   By sleeping or living in any motor vehicle or trailer located on any
public street, highway, sidewalk, alley, or way, or any other public place or
building, park, or public property.
      5.   By sleeping on any public street, highway, sidewalk, alley, or way,
or any other public place or building, park, or other public property.
      6.   The conduct described in subsections B4 and B5 of this section shall
not be a violation of this section if occurring in a location of any city park
or other public facility approved in advance by the public official having
authority to regulate use of such park or facility.
   C.   Order To Disperse: When any person causes or commits any of the
conditions enumerated in subsection B of this section, a police officer or any
law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing
such conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person who refuses or fails to
so move on or disperse shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(1989 Code § 9-7)
5-4A-6: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:
No person in the city shall disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly
for religious worship by making a noise or by rude or indecent behavior or
profane discourse within such place of worship or so near the same as to
disturb the order or solemnity of the meeting.
(1989 Code § 9-8)
5-4A-7: THROWING, DISCHARGING STENCH BOMBS:
No person in the city shall throw, drop, pour, deposit or discharge upon the
person or property of another any liquid, gaseous or solid substance which is
injurious to person or property, or which is nauseous, sickening, irritating or
offensive to any of the senses, with intent to wrongfully injure, molest,
discomfort, discommode or coerce another in the use, management, conduct or
control of his or her person or property. No person shall attempt, or aid in
the attempt or commission of, any of these prohibited acts.
(1989 Code § 9-20)
ARTICLE 4B: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
Section
5-4B-1: Damage To Or Removal Of Property
5-4B-2: Obstructing Passageways
5-4B-3: Depositing Rubbish
5-4B-4: Removal Of Earth
5-4B-5: Advertisements
5-4B-6: Barbed Wire Or Electric Fences
5-4B-7: Throwing Missiles
5-4B-1: DAMAGE TO OR REMOVAL OF PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall willfully, maliciously, wantonly, negligently or
otherwise injure, deface, destroy or remove real property or improvements
thereto or moveable or personal property belonging to the city or to any person
in the city.
(1989 Code § 9-23)
   B.   No person shall tamper with, injure, deface, destroy or remove any
sign, notice, marker, fire alarm box, fireplug, topographical survey monument
or any other personal property erected or placed by the city.
(1989 Code § 9-26)
5-4B-2: OBSTRUCTING PASSAGEWAYS:
No person in the city shall place or erect upon any public way or passageway to
any building an obstruction of any type; provided, that this section shall not
prevent the duly authorized or required placing of temporary barriers or
warning signs for the purpose of safeguarding the public.
(1989 Code § 9-27)
5-4B-3: DEPOSITING RUBBISH:
No person in the city shall throw or permit to be deposited or scattered upon
any sidewalk, alley, street, bridge or public passageway, or upon any private
property, any waste or other material of any kind.
(1989 Code § 9-24)
5-4B-4: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
No person in the city, without lawful authority, shall move, disturb, or take
any earth, stone or other material from any public street, alley, park or other
public ground.
(1989 Code § 9-28)
5-4B-5: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Unlawful Advertisements; Damage To: No person in the city shall
advertise any unlawful business or article or injure or deface any lawful
advertisement or notice.
(1989 Code § 9-22)
   B.   Posting Advertisements: No person in the city shall fasten in any way
any show card, poster or other advertising device upon public or private
property in the city unless legally authorized to do so.
(1989 Code § 9-25)
5-4B-6: BARBED WIRE OR ELECTRIC FENCES:
No person in the city shall erect or maintain any fence constructed in whole or
in part of barbed wire or an electric fence, nor shall use any such fence as a
guard to any parking lot, stairway, entrance to a building or parcel of land.
(1989 Code § 9-12)
5-4B-7: THROWING MISSILES:
   A.   No person in the city shall throw any stone, snowball or any other
missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree or other public or private way
or place or enclosed or unenclosed ground.
   B.   Except where authorized in this code, no person in the city shall cast,
throw, light, or fire any squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun,
revolver, pistol, cap, or cartridge, or other combustible firecrackers or
fireworks of any kind.
(1989 Code § 9-14)
ARTICLE 4C: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
5-4C-1: Serving As A Lookout For Illegal Acts
5-4C-2: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-4C-3: Indecent Exposure, Gestures Or Language
5-4C-4: Window Peeping
5-4C-1: SERVING AS A LOOKOUT FOR ILLEGAL ACTS:
No person in the city shall act as a guard or lookout for any building,
premises or establishment used for gambling, prostitution or other form of vice
or illegal act, or where intoxicating liquors are illegally kept, sold or
purchased, or for any person soliciting, offering or engaging in prostitution,
gambling or any other form of vice, or illegal act, or any prostitute, on any
street or sidewalk. Nor shall any person give any signal intended or calculated
to warn, or give warning of, the approach of any peace officer to any person in
or about such building or premises or places mentioned in this section.
(1989 Code § 9-31)
5-4C-2: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble or engage in any game of
chance within the city, except as otherwise authorized by the state or the
ordinances of the city.
   B.   No person in the city being the owner or person in control of premises
shall knowingly permit the use or occupancy thereof for unlawful gambling.
(1989 Code § 9-33) (Ord. O-22-004, 3-1-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
5-4C-3: INDECENT EXPOSURE, GESTURES OR LANGUAGE:
No person in the city shall appear in any public place in a state of nudity or
lewd or indecent dress, or make any lewd exposure of his or her body with
intent to arouse or to satisfy the sexual desire of any person, or make any
lewd or indecent gestures. Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of indecent
exposure under this section.
(1989 Code § 9-34)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-30
5-4C-4: WINDOW PEEPING:
No person in the city shall look, peer, or peep into or be found loitering
around or within view of any window within a building occupied as the residence
of another person with the intent of watching or looking through such window to
observe any person.
(1989 Code § 9-38)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1(a)11
ARTICLE 4D: OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
5-4D-1: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
5-4D-2: MDPV/Bath Salts
5-4D-3: Cannabis, Controlled Substances, Look-Alike Substances, Synthetic
Substances, and Drug Paraphernalia
5-4D-1: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   No person in the city shall, whether as driver or passenger, transport,
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger area of any
motor vehicle except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(1989 Code § 9-35)
   B.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini motor home as
defined in section 1-145.01 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-145.01).
However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having
any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver’s area.
5-4D-2: MDPV/BATH SALTS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the use,
possession, distribution or delivery of all synthetic cathinones, including any
substance containing “MDPV”, as defined in subsection B of this section, and
any similar product sold under the disguise of legitimate products such as
“bath salts”, it being the specific finding of the city that such substances
have a dangerous effect upon anyone using and/or ingesting said substances and
have no medicinal or beneficial purposes.
(1989 Code § 9-240)
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall have the following meanings:
   BATH SALTS: Any synthetic or natural material containing any quantity of a
cathinone chemical structure, including any analogs, salts, isomers or salts of
isomers of any synthetic or natural material containing a cathinone chemical
structure, including, but not limited to, MDPV, and synthetic cathinones as
defined in subsection (h) of section 204 of the Illinois controlled substances
act, being 720 ILCS 542/1 et seq.
   DELIVER: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer from one person to
another of MDPV, whether or not there is an agency relationship, and includes a
sale.
   DISTRIBUTE: To deliver other than by administering or dispensing MDPV.
   MDPV: Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing any
quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central
nervous system, including their salts, isomers and salts of isomers of 3.4
methylenedioxyprovalerone, methylone, mephedrone, 4-methoxymethcathinone, 4-
fluoromethcathinine and 3-fluoromethcathinone.
   POSSESS: With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he or she has the substance on his or her person or within
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
possession, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance either directly or through another person or persons
is in constructive possession of it.
   USE: The partaking, inhaling, smoking, consumption, ingestion or injection
of synthetic cathinones.
(1989 Code § 9-241)
   C.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess,
distribute or deliver any substance containing bath salts or “MDPV”, as defined
subsection B of this section.
(1989 Code § 9-242)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 9-245)
5-4D-3: CANNABIS, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, LOOK-ALIKE SUBSTANCES, SYNTHETIC
SUBSTANCES, AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the use,
possession, distribution or delivery of cannabis, look- alike substances,
synthetic drug substances and drug paraphernalia within the boundaries of the
city.
(1989 Code § 9-246)
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall have the following meanings:
   CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivatives, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Includes any controlled substance or controlled
substance analog as defined in section 102 of the Illinois controlled
substances act (720 ILCS 570/102), as amended from time to time.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Includes all equipment, products and materials of any
kind, which are:
   1.   Possessed or intended for use;
   2.   Being or have been used; or
   3.   Peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body look-alike substances, synthetic alternative drugs,
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of this section, the cannabis
control act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.), the Illinois controlled substances act
(720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.), or the methamphetamine control and community
protection act (720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.).
LOOK-ALIKE SUBSTANCE: A substance which:
   1.   By overall dosage unit appearance, including shape, color, size,
markings or lack thereof, taste, consistency or any other identifying physical
characteristic of the substance would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the substance is cannabis, a controlled substance, or a synthetic alternative
drug; or
   2.   Is expressly or impliedly represented to be cannabis, a controlled
substance, or a synthetic alternative drug, or distributed under circumstances
which would lead a reasonable person to believe that the substance is cannabis,
a controlled substance or a synthetic alternative drug. For the purpose of
determining whether the representations made or the circumstances of the
distribution would lead a reasonable person to believe the substance to be
cannabis or a controlled substance under this paragraph 2, the court or other
authority may consider the following factors in addition to any other factor
that may be relevant:
      a.   Statements made by the owner or person in control of the substance
concerning its nature, use or effect;
      b.   Statements made to the buyer or recipient that the substance may be
resold for profit;
      c.   Whether the substance is packaged in the manner normally used for
the illegal distribution of controlled substances;
      d.   Whether the distribution or attempted distribution included an
exchange of, or demand for money or other property as consideration and whether
the amount of the consideration was substantially greater than the reasonable
retail market value of the substance.
   MIND ALTERING SUBSTANCES: Any substance, whether described as tobacco,
herbs, incense, spice, salts or any other description or blend thereof,
regardless of whether the substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked
or for human consumption, which, if smoked, burned, inhaled or taken orally,
causes intoxication, euphoria, or any other mind altering effect. For purposes
of this section, “mind altering substances” shall not include medication for
which the possessing party holds a valid prescription, or beer, wine or
intoxicating liquor.
   POSSESS: With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he or she has the substance on his or her person or within
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
possession, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance, either directly or through another person or
persons, is in constructive possession of it.
   SYNTHETIC DRUG SUBSTANCE: A product or substance that contains a synthetic
cannabinoid, anesthetic, stimulant, or hallucinogen as those terms are defined
herein:
   1.   Synthetic cannabinoid means any laboratory created or otherwise manmade
compound that functions similar to or mimics the effect of the active
ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including, but not limited
to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters, ethers,
salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist. This
includes, but is not limited to, products marketed under the following
commercial names: Blaze, Dascents, Diablo, Fire N’Ice, Genie, K2, K2 Summit, K-
2 Sex, KO Knock-Out 2, Mojo, Pandora Potpourri, Pep Spice, Sage, Salvia
Divinorum, Sense, Silver, Skunk, Solar Flare, Spice, Spice Cannabinoid, Spice
Diamond, Spice Gold, Spicy Green, Yucatan Fire and Zohai.
   2.   Synthetic stimulant means any laboratory-created or otherwise manmade
substance that functions similar to or mimics the effects of any federally
controlled Schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDMA, including, but not limited to, any such quantity of a natural or
synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog
(including isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous and/or cardiovascular system.
   3.   Synthetic hallucinogen any laboratory-created or otherwise manmade
substance that functions similar to or mimics the effects of any federally
controlled Schedule I substance that has a psychedelic/hallucinogenic effect on
the central nervous system and/or brain, or any other substance having such an
effect, including, but not limited to, any such quantity of a natural or
synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog
(including isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers).
   USE: The partaking, inhaling, smoking, consumption, ingestion or injection
of cannabis, a controlled substance, a look-alike substance, or a synthetic
substance or other similar drug such as K2.
(1989 Code § 9-247)
   C.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance,
for any person to use, possess, purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or
attempt to sell, give, or deliver cannabis, a controlled substance, a look-
alike substance, a mind altering substance, a synthetic drug substance, or drug
paraphernalia, as those terms are defined in subsection B of this section,
within the city limits.
(1989 Code § 9-248)
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   The prohibition of subsection C of this section does not apply to a
person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles
under the Illinois hypodermic syringes and needles act (720 ILCS 635/0.01 et
seq.).
      2.   The prohibition of subsection C of this section does not apply to a
person or entity who is authorized to possess, keep for sale, offer for sale,
sell, or deliver for any commercial consideration cannabis, a controlled
substance, a look-alike substance, synthetic alternative drug, or drug
paraphernalia pursuant to the Illinois controlled substances act (720 ILCS 570/
101 et seq.), the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act (410
ILCS 130/1 et seq.), or another provision of Illinois law or this code.
      3.   It shall not be unlawful for any individual who is a registered
qualifying patient or a registered designated caregiver, as those terms are
defined in the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act (“Act”)
(410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.), to possess cannabis or drug paraphernalia for the
purpose of engaging or assisting in the medical use of cannabis, to engage in
the medical use of cannabis, or to assist a qualifying patient with the medical
use of cannabis in accordance with the provisions of the act. An individual is
presumed to be acting lawfully and in compliance with this section and the
terms of the act where such individual is in possession of: a valid registry
identification card; and no more than two and one-half (2.5) ounces of cannabis
(or such other amount as authorized by the act). The following activities are
also not unlawful under this section to the extent they are in compliance with
the provisions of the act:
         a.   Selling cannabis paraphernalia to a registered cardholder upon
presentation of an unexpired registry identification card in the recipient’s
name, if employed and registered as a dispensing agent by a registered
dispensing organization;
         b.   Being in the presence or vicinity of the lawful medical use of
cannabis; or
         c.   Assisting a registered qualifying patient with the act of
administering cannabis.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection D. shall be construed to permit
possession or use of cannabis or paraphernalia in a manner prohibited or
otherwise inconsistent with this section or the provisions of the act,
including, but not limited to, possession of an amount of cannabis in excess of
two and one-half (2.5) ounces (or such other amount as authorized by the act),
or the non-medical use or unlawful sharing of cannabis. No medical cannabis
cardholder may possess medical cannabis in the passenger area of any motor
vehicle except in a sealed, tamper-evident medical cannabis container that is
reasonably inaccessible while the vehicle is moving. The use of medical
cannabis in any public place within the city is prohibited.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 9-251)
ARTICLE 4E: OFFENSES INVOLVING WEAPONS
Section
5-4E-1: Concealed Carry; Display In A Threatening Manner
5-4E-2: Discharging Weapons Or Explosives
5-4E-3: Penalty
5-4E-1: CONCEALED CARRY; DISPLAY IN A THREATENING MANNER:
No person in the city shall wear under his or her clothes, or conceal about his
or her person, or display in a threatening manner any dangerous or deadly
weapon including, but not limited to, any pistol, revolver, slingshot, cross
knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, or any bowie knife, or any
knife resembling a bowie knife, or any knife with a switchblade or device
whereby the blade or blades can be opened by a flick of a button, pressure on
the handle, or other mechanical contrivance. Provided, however, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prohibit any person from carrying a concealed
firearm pursuant to a licensed issued under and in compliance with the firearm
concealed carry act, being 430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.
(1989 Code § 9-18)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-1
5-4E-2: DISCHARGING WEAPONS OR EXPLOSIVES:
No person in the city shall discharge any revolver, gun, air gun, pistol or any
firearm of any description, or fire, explode or set off any squib, rocket or
other combustible containing powder or other explosive material, except that
the chief of police may grant permits for exhibitions involving the use of
weapons or explosives having historical interest or presenting an otherwise
valid public interest, which permit shall specify the purpose of and time and
place of such permitted exhibition, and except as otherwise provided in title
5, chapter 7 of this code.
(1989 Code § 9-19)
5-4E-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
5-5-1: Curfew Regulations
5-5-2: Tobacco Products
5-5-3: Social Hosting
5-5-4: Truancy
5-5-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Statute Authority: This section is promulgated pursuant to the
authority established in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-5.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
   CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of eighteen (18) years who is authorized
by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under 17 years of age.
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops. The term shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above.
   C.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for a minor to remain
or be present in any public place in the city, at the following times unless
such minor is accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or
custodian:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) a.m. and six o’clock
(6:00) a.m. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) a.m. and six o’clock
(6:00) a.m. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o’clock (6:00) a.m. on the following day.
   D.   Exemptions: The restrictions set forth in subsection C shall not apply
where a minor is:
      1.   Involved in an emergency;
      2.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      3.   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      4.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor.
   E.   Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person operating or having charge of any public place knowingly to permit the
presence of persons under the age of seventeen (17) years between the hours set
forth in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Custodian: It shall be unlawful
for the parent, guardian or custodian of any minor to suffer, permit or allow
such minor to be on the streets or sidewalks or on or in any public property or
public place within the city between the hours set forth in subsection C of
this section, except as otherwise provided in subsection D.
(1989 Code § 9-39)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
5-5-2: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the
health, safely and welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the
distribution to and possession or use by minors of any tobacco products, and by
regulating the use of cigarette vending machines, which have provided minors
with easy access to cigarettes in contravention of the public policy of the
city.
(1989 Code § 7-380)
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   DISTRIBUTE: To give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue, or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person who may be required to or directed by any employer, in
consideration of direct or indirect gain or profit, to engage in any
employment, or to go, or work, or be at any time in any place of employment.
   EMPLOYER: Any person, firm, corporation, agent, manager, representative or
other person having control or custody of any employment, place of employment
or employee.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any physical facility operated by a commercial enterprise,
nonprofit entity, government agency or other person.
   MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   ORGANIZATION: A corporation for profit or not for profit, partnership,
limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, estate, trust,
or other commercial legal entity.
(1989 Code § 7-381)
   C.   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute or furnish any tobacco
product to any minor. No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes or other tobacco products, or any agent, employee or
representative of a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes or other tobacco products, shall fail to post in a
conspicuous place a sign stating that giving, selling or otherwise distributing
cigarettes or tobacco products to a person under eighteen (18) years of age is
prohibited by law.
   D.   Vending Machines Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   Prohibited:
         a.   The sale or distribution of cigarettes or any tobacco product via
the use of a vending machine is prohibited.
         b.   No person or business entity of any type shall permit, facilitate
or condone the sale or distribution of any cigarette or other tobacco product
via a vending machine at his or her establishment.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   An employer may provide cigarette or other tobacco product
vending machines for employees at the work establishment if the vending
machines are not accessible to the public and persons under eighteen (18) years
of age are not employees of the establishment. The employer must certify in
writing to the chief of police that there are no other acceptable alternatives
for the sale or distribution of tobacco products at the establishment, and that
persons under eighteen (18) years of age are not employed at the establishment.
         b.   Licensed liquor establishments may provide tobacco product
vending machines if the machines are not accessible to minors.
(1989 Code § 7-383)
   E.   Purchase, Possession, Consumption By Minors Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall purchase, possess
or consume in any manner or form cigarettes or any tobacco product.
(1989 Code § 7-384)
      2.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall display or use a
false or forged identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an
identification card in order to obtain any tobacco product.
      3.   Possession is not an offense if the person under eighteen (18) years
of age was in possession of an unopened container or containers of the
cigarette or other tobacco product while performing their specified duties at a
lawful place of employment.
(1989 Code § 7-385)
   F.   Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Other: No parent, guardian or
caretaker shall permit, allow or facilitate, actively or passively, a child
under eighteen (18) years of age for whom they are responsible to purchase,
possess or consume in any manner or form cigarettes or any tobacco products.
(1989 Code § 7-387)
   G.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1989 Code § 7-386)
   H.   Conflicting Provisions: Any provision of this section in conflict with
federal or state statutory enactments shall be subordinate to said enactments;
all other provisions of this section being severable and remaining valid.
(1989 Code § 7-388)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
5-5-3: SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words have
the following meanings:
   GATHERING OR EVENT: A group of four (4) or more persons who have assembled
or are assembling for a social occasion or social activity.
(1989 Code § 9-261)
   B.   Consumption, Possession On Private Property: No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years shall consume or have in his or her possession or control
any alcoholic beverage at any place not open to the public, unless that person
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(1989 Code § 9-262)
   C.   Hosting Gatherings Where Alcoholic Beverages Are Provided: Except as
permitted by state law or this code, no person shall suffer, permit or allow
the consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under twenty-one (21) years
of age at such person’s residence, any other private property under his or her
control, or in any vehicle, conveyance or watercraft under his or her control.
For purposes of this section, where the residence or other private property has
an owner and a tenant or lessee, it shall be presumed that the property is
occupied by and under the control of only the tenant or lessee.
(1989 Code § 9-263)
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   A person shall not be in violation of this section if he or she:
         a.   Seeks assistance from the city police department or other law
enforcement agency:
            (1)   To remove any person who refuses to abide by the person’s
performance of the duties imposed by this section; or
            (2)   Terminate the activity because the person has been unable to
prevent a person under the age of twenty-one (21) from consuming alcohol
despite having taken all reasonable steps to do so; and
         b.   Such request is made before any other person makes a complaint
about the activity.
(1989 Code § 9-264)
      2.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or exclusively between
an person under twenty one (21) years of age and his or her parent or legal
guardian, as permitted by state law.
(1989 Code § 9-265)
   E.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates or assists in the violation of any provision
of this section shall be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such violation. Each day on which or during which a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
         a.   The first violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
         b.   A second violation of this section by the same person within a
twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
         c.   A third violation of this section by the same person within a
twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a fine of not less than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
      2.   In addition to any fine imposed, any person found to be in violation
of this section shall be responsible for any and all response costs incurred to
investigate the event or gathering.
(1989 Code § 9-266)
5-5-4: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this article, the following words have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   COMMUNITY SERVICE: Unpaid work or services for a non-profit organization or
public body whose purpose is to enhance physical or mental stability,
environmental quality, or the social welfare.
   TRUANT: A child subject to compulsory school attendance who is absent
without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
   VALID CAUSE: Illness, observance of religious holiday, death in the
immediate family, family emergency, or any other situation beyond the control
of a student or which cause reasonable concern to the parent for the safety or
health of the student, which causes the student to be absent from school.
(1989 Code § 9-267)
   B.   Truancy Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is subject to the compulsory
attendance requirements of section 26-1 of the Illinois school code (105 ILCS
5/26-1) and enrolled in a public or private school within the city to be absent
from school without valid cause.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person in
loco parentis to knowingly permit a child in their custody or care who is
subject to the compulsory attendance requirements of section 26-1 of the
Illinois school code (105 ILCS 5/26-1) and enrolled in a public or private
school within the city to be absent from school without valid cause.
      3.   A parent, guardian or other person in loco parentis shall be deemed
to have knowingly permitted a child in their custody or care to be absent from
school without valid cause when the parent, guardian or person in loco parentis
knows that said child is absent from school without valid cause and fails to
act to ensure that the child attends the school in which he or she is enrolled.
(1989 Code § 9-268)
   C.   False Excuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any child subject to
the compulsory attendance requirements of section 26-1 of the Illinois school
code (105 ILCS 5/26-1), or any parent, guardian or other person in loco
parentis such a child, to knowingly submit to the school in which such child is
enrolled a written or oral statement for purposes of excusing the child from
school that contains false information, including a falsified signature.
   D.   Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) and may, in lieu
of or in addition to any fine, be ordered to perform community service. If the
violator is 13 years of age or older, the violator is subject to fines and/or
community service as set forth in this subsection; if the violator is under 13
years of age, the parent or custodian of the violator shall be subject to fines
and/or community service. Each day upon which a violation of this section
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(1989 Code § 9-270)
(Ord. O-18-001, 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 6: UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
Section
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Prohibited Acts
5-6-3: Exceptions
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AIRCRAFT: As used herein collectively means any unmanned or manned aircraft
that is capable of flying through the air, and includes light sport aircraft as
defined herein.
COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT: An aircraft that is used for business purposes and has
gained Federal Aviation Administration approval for flying civil unmanned
aircraft systems.
LIGHT SPORT AIRCRAFT: Simple, manned low performance, low energy aircraft
including, but not limited to: airplanes, gliders, gyroplanes, balloons,
airships, ultralights, microlights weight shift control (trikes), and powered
parachutes. This also includes amateur-built aircraft, amateur-built gliders
and amateur-built helicopters.
MANNED AIRCRAFT: An aircraft that is operated by an individual who is riding in
the aircraft while it is operating.
NON-COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT: Any aircraft that is not a commercial aircraft and
includes, but is not limited to, all hobby and recreational uses of aircraft
and any business uses of aircraft that has not gained Federal Aviation
Administration approval for flying civil aircraft systems.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, firm, association or business entity of any sort, whether or not
operated for profit.
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT: An aircraft that is operated remotely without any means of
physical attachment to the aircraft such as a string or wire or operated
autonomously through the use of an on-board computer and either weighs over .55
pounds or weighs less than .55 pounds but has a camera, viewing device, or
listening device attached thereto.
(Ord. O-16-010, 8-1-2016; Ord. O-19-020, 11-4-2019)
5-6-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall:
   A.   Operate any aircraft in conflict of rules promulgated by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA).
   B.   Operate any aircraft in a manner such as to endanger the safety of any
persons or property.
   C.   Operate any aircraft in such a manner so as to observe or record the
activities of anyone who, by their location, has a reasonable expectation of
being safe from surveillance or observation. For purposes of this provision,
persons have a reasonable expectation of being safe from surveillance or
observation if they are within a building, within an enclosed privacy fence or
in an area not otherwise visible from ground level on neighboring public or
private property.
   D.   Operate any aircraft with the purpose of harassing any person or
animal.
   E.   Operate any aircraft so as to interfere with any police or fire
investigation.
   F.   Operate any non-commercial aircraft within 500 feet of a police
investigation, traffic accident, medical emergency, fire or fire investigation.
   G.   Operate any non-commercial aircraft in or over any school facility,
county facility, park district building, pool facility, pond, ball diamonds,
soccer fields, picnic areas, parks, or other park district property or open
lands, or city-owned facilities, or to takeoff or land from said facilities; or
to take off or land from city-owned streets, unless first authorized by the
governing board or its designee.
   H.   Operate any non-commercial aircraft over any other person’s property
without the prior consent of the property owner.
   I.   Operate any noncommercial aircraft over any sporting event, concert or
other outdoor congregation of people unless authorized to do so by the managing
entity of the facility, building or property.
(Ord. O-16-010, 8-1-2016; Ord. O-19-020, 11-4-2019)
5-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The prohibitions in this chapter do not apply to:
   A.   The operation of unmanned aircraft by the police or other law
enforcement agency in performance of their official duties.
   B.   The operation of aircraft by a governmental agency or with the prior
approval of a governmental agency in the performance of a governmental function
or to assist in the performance of a governmental function.
(Ord. O-16-010, 8-1-2016; Ord. O-19-020, 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 7: FIREWORKS
Section
5-7-1: State Regulations Adopted; Amendments
5-7-2: Permit Fee
5-7-3: Penalty
5-7-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
The city hereby adopts the Illinois pyrotechnic use act, being 425 ILCS 35/0.01
et seq., in its entirety with the exceptions that the requirements for consumer
display under section 2.2 of the act shall be the same as those for a
pyrotechnic display under section 2.1 of the act and that section 5 assessing
penalties for violation of the same is deleted and the penalty shall be as set
forth in this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-15)
5-7-2: PERMIT FEE:
The cost for permits issued hereunder by the chief of the fire department shall
be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 9-15)
5-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 9-2)
CHAPTER 8: CHRONIC NUISANCES PROPERTIES
Section
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Violations
5-8-3: Procedure
5-8-4: Remedies
5-8-5: Abatement Of Nuisance; Burden Of Proof
5-8-6: Emergency Closing Procedure
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which three (3) or more occurrences of
nuisance activity have occurred during a twelve (12) month period as a result
of any three (3) separate factual events that have been independently
investigated by any law enforcement agency.
   A.   Disorderly conduct, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-
1 or this code.
   B.   Unlawful use of weapons, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1 et seq. or this code.
   C.   Mob action, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1 or this
code.
   D.   Discharge of a firearm, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 5/24-1.5 or this code.
   E.   Gambling, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 or this
code.
   F.   Possession, manufacture or delivery of cannabis, controlled substances,
synthetic or look-alike substances, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/401 et seq. or this code.
   G.   Assault or battery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12
et seq. or this code.
   H.   Sexual abuse or related offense, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1.50 et seq. or this code.
   I.   Public indecency, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-30
or this code.
   J.   Prostitution, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 et
seq. or this code.
   K.   Criminal damage to property, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq. or this code.
   L.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis, as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq. or this code.
   M.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol, as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. or this code.
   N.   Violation of any city of Princeton code relative to garbage, junk and/
or weeds.
   O.   Violation of any city of Princeton ordinance or state of Illinois
statute controlling or regulating the sale or use of alcoholic beverages.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. “Owner” includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   A mortgagor in possession in whom is vested:
   1.   All or part of the legal title to the property; or
   2.   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the present
use and enjoyment of the premises; or
   B.   An occupant, including a tenant, who can control what occurs on the
property.
   C.   Any person acting as agent of the owner or occupant.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation capable of
owning or using property in the city of Princeton.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental, or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure, or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not.
(1989 Code § 9-222)
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see title 3, chapter 1 of this code
   Garbage, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code
5-8-2: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is hereby declared a nuisance and danger to public health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort for any owner of property within the city to permit
such property to become a nuisance property as defined in this chapter.
   B.   Any owner who permits property under his or her ownership or control to
be a public nuisance property shall be in violation of this chapter and subject
to its remedies.
(1989 Code § 9-221)
   C.   The third occurrence of a nuisance activity, as defined in this
chapter, and each subsequent occurrence thereof, occurring during any twelve
(12) month period, constitutes a separate violation of this chapter.
5-8-3: PROCEDURE:
When the city chief of police receives two (2) police reports documenting the
occurrence of nuisance activity on or within a property within a twelve (12)
month period, the chief of police shall, if he or she determines, upon
investigation, that the documented nuisance activity has occurred:
   A.   Notify the owner in writing that the property is in danger of becoming
a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
      2.   A statement that the chief of police has information that the
property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities determined to exist or have occurred, and a statement that
a third occurrence of nuisance activity may result in a determination that the
property is a chronic nuisance property.
   B.   After complying with the notification procedures described in
subsection A, upon receipt of a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property within a twelve (12) month
period, if the chief of police determines the property has become a chronic
nuisance property, the chief of police shall:
      1.   Notify the owner in writing that the property has been determined to
be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         b.   A statement that the chief of police has determined the property
to be chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to the findings.
         c.   Demand that the owner respond within ten (10) days to the chief
of police and propose a course of action that the chief of police agrees will
abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation.
      2.   Service shall be made either personally or by certified, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner at the address of the
property believed to be a chronic nuisance property or such place which is
likely to give the owner notice of the determination by the chief of police.
      3.   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after ten
(10) days has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the person
in charge, and the person in charge has not contacted the chief of police.
      4.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may be
a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
      5.   If, after notice is provided as set forth herein, but prior to the
commencement of legal proceedings by the city pursuant to this chapter, an
owner in charge stipulates with the chief of police that the owner will pursue
a course of action the parties agree they will abate the nuisance activities
giving rise to the violation, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30)
days, except in the case of a nuisance activity under section
5-9-6 of this chapter. If the agreed course of action does not result in the
abatement of the nuisance activity or if no agreement concerning abatement is
reached within thirty (30) days, the chief of police shall request
authorization for the city council to commence legal proceeding to abate the
nuisance activity.
      6.   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
chief of police shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings, to the city council.
   C.   When a owner makes a response to the chief of police as required in
subsection B of this section, any conduct or statements made in connection with
the furnishings of that response shall not constitute an admission that any
nuisance activities have or are occurring. This subsection does not require the
exclusion of any evidence which is otherwise admissible or offered for any
other purpose.
(1989 Code § 9-225)
5-8-4: REMEDIES:
   A.   In the event a court or administrative hearing officer determines
property to be a chronic nuisance property, the court or administrative hearing
officer may order that the property be closed and secured against all use and
occupancy for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, but not more than one
hundred eighty (180) days, or the court or administrative hearing officer may
employ any other remedy deemed thereby to be appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   B.   In addition to the remedy provided in subsection A of this section, the
court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the amount
of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, payable to the city of
Princeton, for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the property was a
public nuisance property, and permitted the property to remain public nuisance
property.
   C.   In determining what remedy or remedies shall be allowed, the court may
consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The disturbance of neighbors.
      2.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises.
      3.   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public.
      4.   The repeated sale or possession of controlled substances on the
premises.
(1989 Code § 9-223)
5-8-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE; BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   The city attorney, at the direction of the city manager, may commence
an action to abate a public nuisance as described herein. Upon being satisfied
by affidavits or other sworn evidence that an alleged public nuisance exists,
the court may, without notice or bond, enter a temporary restraining order or a
preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant from maintaining such nuisance
and may enter an order restraining any defendant from removing or interfering
with all property used in conjunction with the public nuisance.
(1989 Code § 9-224)
   B.   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the city
shall have the initial burden of showing by preponderance of the evidence that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   C.   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of a chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become a public nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   D.   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors if they need be found appropriate,
and shall cite those found applicable:
      1.   The actions or lack of action taken by the owner to mitigate or
correct the problem at the property.
      2.   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous.
      3.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem.
      4.   The cooperation of the owner with the city.
      5.   The cost of the city investigating and correcting or attempting to
correct the condition.
(1989 Code § 9-226)
5-8-6: EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURE:
   A.   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the city may apply to the court for
such interim relief, as is deemed by the chief of police to be appropriate. In
such an event, there need not be compliance with the notification provision set
forth in section
5-8-3 of this chapter; however, the city shall make a diligent effort to notify
the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
   B.   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a “chronic
nuisance property”, as defined in section
5-8-1 of this chapter, the court may order the remedy set out herein. In
addition, in the event that it also finds the person in charge had knowledge of
activities or conditions of the property constituting or violating this chapter
and permitted such activities to occur, the court may assess a civil fine as
provided herein.
   C.   The court may authorize the city to physically secure the property
against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so within the time
specified by the court. In the event that the city is authorized to secure the
property, all costs reasonably incurred by the city to effect a closure shall
be made and assessed as a lien against said property. As used herein, “costs”
means those costs actually incurred by the city for the physical securing of
the property, as well as tenant relocation costs.
   D.   The city street department effecting the closure shall prepare a
statement of cost, and the city shall thereafter submit said statement to the
court for its review. If no objection of the statement is made within the
period described by the court, a lien in said amount may be recorded against
said property.
   E.   Any person who is assessed the cost of closure and/or a civil penalty
by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the city.
   F.   A tenant is entitled to his or her reasonable relocation costs, as
those are determined by the court, if, without actual notice, the tenant moved
into the property after either:
      1.   The owner or tenant received notice as described herein of the
police chief’s determination that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
      2.   An unknown owner or other agent received notice of an action brought
pursuant to this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-227)
CHAPTER 9: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES FOR CERTAIN CRIMES
Section
5-9-1: Purpose
5-9-2: Definitions
5-9-3: Public Nuisance Declared; Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impoundment
5-9-4: Authority To Seize And Impound; Owner Removal Authorized
5-9-5: Posting Bond
5-9-6: Administrative Hearing
5-9-7: Disposition Of Impounded Vehicles
5-9-8: Appeals; Judicial Review
5-9-9: Applicability Of Other Laws; Exceptions
5-9-10: Use Of Fees
5-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to reduce, eliminate and curb drug activity,
illegal firearm activity, illegal driving under the influence and while license
suspended or revoked, and significant events involving driving without a valid
driver’s license in the city by providing for the seizure and impounding of
motor vehicles used in such activities and providing a civil penalty therefor,
to better maintain the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
HEARING OFFICER: The administrative hearing officer appointed pursuant to
section
1-4A-4 of this code.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle as registered with
the secretary of state of the state of Illinois, or any other applicable
governmental agency.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
Cross-reference:
   See section
1-4A-6 of this code
5-9-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED; VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle operated by or with the permission, express or implied, of the
owner of record shall be declared a public nuisance and shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment under this chapter where such motor vehicle is used in
the commission of any of the violations set forth in this section or when the
commission of any of the violations set forth in this section makes impoundment
of the motor vehicle reasonably necessary as a community caretaking function so
that the motor vehicle does not jeopardize public safety and the efficient
movement of vehicular traffic. It shall not be necessary for criminal charges
to be filed, prosecuted and/or proven in order to demonstrate that one or more
of the following violations has/have been committed:
   A.   The operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/36-1; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 ILCS 5/11-501; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act (720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.); or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.); or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 (unlawful use of
weapons), 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm), or 720 ILCS 5/
24-3.1 (unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition); or
   F.   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that
vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is
for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license,
in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the period of expiration is greater than
one year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver’s license or permit, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, or operating a
motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit due
to a person’s age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated 625 ILCS 5/6-101 (driving without a valid license or
permit), 625 ILCS 5/6-303 (driving while license, permit, or privilege to
operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked), or 625 ILCS 5/11-501 (driving
under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an intoxicating compound
or compounds, or any combination thereof); or
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 (theft and related
offenses) of the criminal code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et seq.); or
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 2012; or
   M.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of 625 ILCS 5/11-503
(reckless driving):
      1.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
      2.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-4: AUTHORITY TO SEIZE AND IMPOUND; OWNER REMOVAL AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the
police officer shall cause the motor vehicle to be removed or towed to a
facility authorized by the city. When the vehicle is towed, the city shall
notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner of record, lessee or
person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or
any person found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
offense, of the fact of the seizure and of the owner of record’s or lessee’s
right to an administrative hearing as provided in this chapter. The city shall
also provide notice that the motor vehicle shall be and remain impounded
pending the completion of the administrative hearing provided in this chapter,
unless the owner of record or lessee of the motor vehicle, or a lienholder of
record of the motor vehicle, posts with the city a cash bond and pays all
towing and storage fees, as set forth in section
5-9-5 of this chapter.
   B.   If, in the judgment of the police officer then present, a person
authorized by the owner of record or the operator of the motor vehicle is
present and capable to provide for the lawful immediate removal of the motor
vehicle, and said motor vehicle is not required to be held as evidence in
regard to the violation, the police officer shall allow that individual to
promptly remove the motor vehicle without it being subject to seizure and
impoundment.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-5: POSTING BOND:
   A.   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be released to
the owner, lessee or lienholder of record upon posting of a bond in the amount
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) with the city, and the payment of the
towing and storage costs to the applicable towing company.
   B.   If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to subsection
5-9-6B of this chapter, the bond shall be applied to said fee; provided, that
in the event that a violation of this chapter is not proven, the bond shall be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
section shall be held by the city until a hearing officer issues a decision,
or, if there is judicial review pursuant to section
5-9-10 of this chapter, until a reviewing court issues a final decision.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after a motor vehicle is impounded pursuant to
this chapter, the city shall notify the owner of record, any lessee and any
lienholder of record of the date, time and location of an administrative
hearing that shall be conducted pursuant to this chapter and article 4A of
title 1 of this code. Such notice shall be personally served upon or mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and first class U.S. mail to the
owner of record, any lessee and any lienholder of record as shown on the
records of the Illinois secretary of state. The administrative hearing shall be
scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after the date of the mailing or
personal service of the notice of hearing, and shall be conducted by a hearing
officer appointed pursuant to section
1-4A-6 of this code. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the evidentiary hearing. At any time prior to the
administrative hearing date, the hearing officer may, at the request of either
the city, the owner of record, any lessee or lienholder of record, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the administrative hearing. The
formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the administrative hearing, and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   B.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment. If the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record fails to appear at
the administrative hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default decision
sustaining the vehicle impoundment.
      1.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the hearing
officer, the hearing officer shall impose an administrative fee as provided in
the city fee schedule, which shall be a debt due to the city. If a bond has
been posted pursuant to section
5-9-5 of this chapter, such bond shall be forfeited to the city and shall be
applied to the administrative fee imposed by the hearing officer. The vehicle
shall not be released to the owner, lessee or lienholder of record until all
administrative fees and towing and storage charges are paid.
      2.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is overruled by the hearing
officer, the hearing officer shall order the immediate return of the impounded
vehicle to the owner, lessee or lienholder of record. Any cash bond posted
pursuant to section
5-9-5 shall be returned, and the city shall be liable to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record for the cost of storage fees and reasonable attorneys’
fees.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
   C.   At the evidentiary hearing, the violation citation shall be prima facie
evidence that the violation was committed as provided in the citation, and the
burden of proof shall be upon the owner of record to prove that the violation
was not committed.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-7: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
   A.   If the administrative fee and other applicable fees are not paid within
thirty five (35) days after (i) the administrative hearing officer issues a
written decision, or (ii) an action seeking administrative review of the
hearing officer’s decision has been resolved in favor of the city, whichever is
applicable, the motor vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and shall be disposed
of in the manner provide by law for the disposition of unclaimed motor vehicles
pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner of record,
lienholder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the administrative fee and
towing and storage costs to the applicable tow company imposed pursuant to this
chapter have been paid. However, whenever a person with a lien of record
against an impounded motor vehicle has commenced foreclosure proceedings,
possession of the motor vehicle shall be given to that person if he or she
agrees in writing to refund to the city the amount of the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of record,
not to exceed the administrative fee plus the applicable towing and storage
costs.
   C.   Costs for towing and storage of a motor vehicle pursuant to this
chapter shall be those approved by the chief of police for all tow companies
authorized to tow for the police department.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-8: APPEALS; JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any owner of record, lessee, lienholder or other person with a legal interest
in the motor vehicle shall have the right to appeal the decision of the hearing
officer to the circuit court of Bureau County pursuant to the administrative
review law, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., as amended. Unless stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty or administrative fee
imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the administrative
review law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-9: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS; EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter is in addition to and shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any
existing state or federal laws or any ordinance that relates to the seizure or
impoundment of motor vehicles, and any fee provided in this chapter shall be in
addition to any and all penalties that may be assessed or imposed by a court
for any criminal charges. This section shall not apply:
   A.   If the motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time of
the violation and verifiable proof of the theft is provided to the city;
   B.   If the motor vehicle is operated as a common carrier as defined by
applicable law and the violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in
control of the motor vehicle; or
   C.   If the motor vehicle is subject to successful forfeiture proceedings
under 725 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/1 et seq., as amended (drug asset
forfeiture procedure act); 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq., as
amended (seizure and forfeiture of vessels, vehicles and aircraft); or other
state or federal forfeiture laws.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
5-9-10: USE OF FEES:
All fees collected by the city pursuant to this chapter shall only be deposited
and used for city traffic safety and enforcement expenditures and for the
expenses of the city’s vehicular administrative adjudication system.
(Ord. O-16-004, 4-18-2016)
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq. as passed, approved and
amended is hereby adopted by the city of Princeton as if fully set out herein;
the provisions shall therefore be controlling within the corporate limits of
the city of Princeton. In the event of any inconsistency between any provision
of this title and any provision of the Illinois vehicle code, the terms of this
title shall apply.
CHAPTER 2: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
Section
6-2-1: Authority To Direct Traffic; Obedience Required
6-2-2: Penalties
6-2-1: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Police Officers:
      1.   Members of the police department and auxiliary police assigned to
traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
      2.   Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1989 Code § 8-5)
   B.   Firefighters: The fire department officer in command, or any
firefighter designated by him or her, may exercise the powers and authority of
a police officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the
fire department has responded to an emergency call for so long as fire
department equipment is on the scene, in the absence of or in assisting the
police.
(1989 Code § 8-6)
6-2-2: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
title shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fines in lieu of court
appearance
CHAPTER 3: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Operation Of Low-Speed Vehicles And Non-Highway Vehicles
6-3-4: Regulation Of Non-Highway Vehicles; General Regulations
6-3-5: Regulation Of Low-Speed Vehicles
6-3-6: Insurance Requirements
6-3-7: Seatbelts Required
6-3-8: Permit Required
6-3-9: Use Under The Influence
6-3-10: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit; Hearing
6-3-11: Violations
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
As defined and qualified herein shall be allowed on City streets under the
conditions as stated herein. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth in this section:
      LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Any four-wheeled vehicle with a maximum speed greater
than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than twenty-five (25) miles per
hour that conforms with the federal motor vehicle safety standards set forth in
49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
      NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any recreational off-highway vehicle not
specifically designed to be used on a public highway. For purposes of this
article, non-highway vehicles shall not include all-terrain vehicles, off-
highway vehicles and low speed vehicles, as such terms are defined in the
Illinois Vehicle Code.
      QUALIFIED APPLICANT. Any governmental unit, governmental agency or
organization, not for profit charitable, civic or religious corporation or
organization, or fraternal organization. The city shall
be entitled to request proof of documentation, including but not limited to
tax-exempt status, from any person or entity purporting to be a qualified
applicant.
      RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device
designed to travel primarily off-highway, sixty-four (64) inches or less in
width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or
less for gas-powered engines or three thousand (3,000) pounds or less for
electric-powered engines, traveling on four or more non-highway tires, designed
with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control, except
equipment such as lawnmowers. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-3: OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLES AND NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   The use of non-highway vehicles on the streets, roadways and alleys of
the city shall be permissible subject to the provisions of this article. Non-
highway vehicles may not be used on any toll road, interstate highway,
controlled access highway or other highway or road under the jurisdiction of
the state, except through permitted crossings as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   The use of low-speed vehicles on the streets, roadways and alleys of
the city shall be permissible if operated in accordance with the provisions set
forth in section 11-1426.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and such other
provisions applicable to low-speed vehicles as are set forth in this chapter.
   C.   Signs shall be posted at the point of entry of all roadways and
highways entering into the city to read as follows: "USE OF STREETS PROHIBITED
BY LOW SPEED AND NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES WITHOUT CITY PERMIT".
   D.   When authorized by and pursuant to the provisions of this article, low-
speed and Non-highway vehicles may be operated within the city only in
compliance with all traffic rules and regulations established by the Illinois
Vehicle Code or by city ordinance, and only those vehicles that comply with the
equipment requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code may be operated when
otherwise authorized pursuant to this article. Nothing herein shall be
interpreted or construed to permit a person who does not possess a valid
driver's license to operate a low-speed or non-highway vehicle. A valid
driver's license means a license issued in the name of the operator by the
state or a foreign jurisdiction and in force at the time of operation of the
vehicle. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-4: REGULATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES; GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Low-speed and non-highway vehicles shall be permitted to operate within
the city twenty-four (24) hours a day. However, all low-speed and non-highway
vehicles must obey the hour restrictions enforced upon all Park District
property as indicated at the entrances to each park.
   B.   Non-highway vehicles shall be operated only on streets where the posted
speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less. The foregoing provision
shall not prohibit a non-highway vehicle from crossing a road or street at an
intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit of more than
thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   C.   Non-highway vehicles shall not be not allowed on the City sidewalks and
City rights-of-way. Non-highway vehicles are also not allowed on private
property unless permitted by the owner of said property.
   D.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street,
highway, or roadway unless he or she is:
      1.   Eighteen (18) years of age or older; and
      2.   Has a valid driver's license issued in his or her name by the
Illinois Secretary of State or such other applicable foreign jurisdiction. All
passengers in the non-highway vehicle must be at least eight (8) years of age.
   E.   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct crossing
upon or across any toll road, interstate highway, or controlled access highway.
A person may make a direct crossing of any other highway under the jurisdiction
of the state at an intersection of the highway with another public street,
road, or highway.
   F.   Non-highway vehicles shall not be allowed to be driven on Illinois
State Route 26, U.S. Route 34, Main Street, Backbone Road, Ace Road and U.S.
Route 6 in the City of Princeton. Non-highway vehicles shall be allowed to
cross a state highway or county highway if the operator of the non-highway
vehicle makes a direct crossing provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing.
      2.   The non-highway vehicle is brought to a complete stop before
attempting a crossing.
      3.   The operator of the non-highway vehicle yields to the right of way
to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which constitutes a hazard.
      4.   That when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the highway with another public street, road, or highway.
   G.   A non-highway vehicle shall not be operated on any street or roadway
unless, at a minimum, it has the following:
      1.   Brakes;
      2.   A steering apparatus;
      3.   Tires;
      4.   A rearview mirror;
      5.   Amber reflectorized warning devices in the front and red reflective
warning devices in the rear;
      6.   A slow-moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in section 12-
709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle;
      7.   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front;
      8.   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear;
      9.   A horn;
      10.   Full windshield;
      11.   Seat belts for all seat positions;
      12.   Brake lights; and
      13.   Turn signals.
   H.   When operated on a roadway, a non-highway vehicle shall have its
headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by section 12-201 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   I.   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a low speed or
non-highway vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to
sections 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and all other
applicable laws.
   J.   The operation of a low speed or non-highway vehicle upon any street,
roadway or alley is subject to the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code concerning the Rules of the Road and all applicable city
ordinances, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   K.   Low speed and non-highway vehicles shall not be operated on any city
sidewalks or other surfaces other than city streets, alleys and roadways.
   L.   Non-highway vehicles are also not allowed to be driven in any cemetery
or city designated park space within the City of Princeton.
   M.   Non-highway vehicles are also not allowed to be driven on any grass or
turf surface, or walking paths on Princeton Park District property beyond the
designated parking lots. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-5: REGULATION OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLES:
In addition to the regulations applicable to low-speed vehicles herein, low
speed vehicles shall at all times be operated in accordance with the standards
set forth in section 11-1426.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-
5-2023)
6-3-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any person who operates a low speed or non-highway vehicle on a street,
highway, or roadway of the city shall be subject to the mandatory insurance
requirements and the minimum liability insurance set forth in article VI of
chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-7: SEATBELTS REQUIRED:
The operator and all passengers shall wear a seatbelt at all times during the
operation of a low speed or non-highway vehicle. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-8: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a low speed or non-highway vehicle on the
city's streets, roadways or alleys without first obtaining an annual permit
from the city as provided herein. Permits for low-speed vehicles shall be
limited to qualified applicants only.
   B.   A permit shall be valid, unless suspended or revoked, from May 1 of the
year of issuance until April 30 of the following year.
   C.   The cost of the annual permit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the first year and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent year, with no
prorations or refunds. Every low speed or non-highway vehicle shall be required
to have a permit and such permit shall not be transferable. Annual renewal
stickers shall be displayed in the proper location as indicated on the
registration plate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the annual permit fee shall
be waived for any qualified applicant.
   D.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant (including the name and type of
organization, as applicable);
      2.   Name of insurance carrier and policy number and/ or a photocopy of
applicable liability insurance coverage card issued specifically for the low
speed or non-highway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of the low speed or
non-highway vehicle;
      4.   A certification from the applicant that the low speed or non-highway
vehicle satisfies the requirements of this article and the Illinois Vehicle
Code; and
      5.   Such other information as the city may require, including a release
and waiver of liability signed by applicant releasing the city and its
employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless, including the
costs of defense, from any and all claims, penalties, costs, judgments,
settlements or causes of action resulting or arising from the operation of
applicant's low speed or non-highway vehicle on city streets.
   E.   No application shall be approved until the chief of the police or fire
department, or a qualified designee, has conducted an investigation into the
application, and shall have caused an inspection of the vehicle or vehicles for
which permit is sought to be obtained. Following completion of the inspection
and investigation, the chief or his or her designee shall report their findings
to the mayor, and upon satisfactory inspection the mayor shall direct the city
clerk to issue the permit. The inspection conducted by the chief or his or her
designee shall be to ascertain:
      1.   That the vehicle or vehicles comply with all applicable laws and
regulations concerning equipment required to be installed under this article;
      2.   The name or names of the persons who shall be the operators of the
vehicles;
      3.   That said persons possess the required driver's license;
      4.   That the vehicle or vehicles are insured to meet or exceed the
requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
      5.   That the applicant is otherwise qualified to hold a permit
hereunder.
   F.   The city shall issue each permitted low speed or non-highway vehicle a
numbered license plate, sticker or other identifier which shall be affixed to
the rear of such vehicle. Every low speed or non-highway vehicle shall be
required to have such identifier and shall not be transferable. There shall be
a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for any replacement.
   G.   The mayor may deny issuance of a permit to any applicant if:
      1.   The inspection reveals that any equipment required by this article
does not exist;
      2.   The operators do not possess the required license;
      3.   The applicant or any of the proposed operators of the vehicles have
previously been found to be in violation of the provisions of this article or
have previously had a permit issued pursuant to this article revoked; or
      4.   The applicant would otherwise not qualify for the issuance of a
permit hereunder.
   H.   The city shall issue non-highway vehicle qualified applicants a permit
to operate within the city limits of Princeton as set forth in this chapter at
no cost. The qualified applicant will be issued a yellow registration plate
indicating and exempt status. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-9: USE UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle authorized
under this chapter on a roadway in the City of Princeton while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs, is subject to the provisions of sections 11-500
through 11-502 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-500 through 11-502. Further, a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be cause for the City of Princeton to revoke the peiinit of the
authorized vehicle. (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-10: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   An appeal for refusal to grant a permit must be submitted in writing to
the mayor and filed in the office of the city clerk within ten (10) days
following the issuance of the denial of the application by the mayor. Notice of
the date and time of the hearing shall be given in writing by the mayor to the
party appealing the decision at least five days prior to the hearing.
   B.   For any proposed revocation or suspension of a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter, a notice of hearing on such proposal shall be given in writing
by the mayor setting forth the grounds for the proposed revocation or
suspension, and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, at the address of the applicant set
forth in the application for the permit, and shall be sent at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. If, prior to the hearing, the
appellate requests a continuance of the date of the hearing, the mayor may
impose a suspension of the permit pending the final hearing, and the final
hearing shall be rescheduled for a date not later than fourteen (14) days
following the request for continuance.
   C.   Hearings shall be conducted by the mayor. At the hearing, the city
attorney shall present the complaint on behalf of the city and shall offer
evidence sufficient to justify the revocation or suspension, as applicable. On
appeal of a denial of a permit, the appellant shall be required to produce
evidence to rebut the basis for denial. The appellant in either case shall be
allowed counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside over the hearing and shall render a written
decision to the appellant within thirty (30) days following the conclusion of
the hearing.
   D.   Following the written decision of the mayor, the appellant shall have
the right to appeal to the ordinance and license committee of the city council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city clerk a request to appeal
within ten (10) days after notice of the written decision by the mayor. The
committee shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal,
and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner
as provided in this section. The hearing shall be held at a date not earlier
than five (5) days after notice is given, and may be held at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the committee. The decision of the committee on such
appeal shall be final and shall constitute a final administrative ruling,
subject to review under the provisions of the state administrative review law
(735 ILCS 5/ 3-101 et. seq.). (Ord. O-23-008, 6-5-2023)
6-3-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person who violated any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty offense and shall be punished by a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) plus court costs normally assessed by the City of Princeton Municipal
Court.
   B.   A second or subsequent offense by any person who violated any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be punished by a
fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) but not more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), plus court costs normally assessed
by the City of Princeton Municipal Court.
   C.   Any second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than one (1) nor more than three (3) years.
   D.   To the extent that any violation of this ordinance also constitutes a
violation of a criminal statute of the State of Illinois, then the violator
shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
   E.   Non-highway vehicles shall be subject to impoun
CHAPTER 4: DRIVING RULES
Section
6-4-1: Through, Stop And One-Way Streets
6-4-2: Speed Restrictions
6-4-3: Turning Movements
6-4-4: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
6-4-1: THROUGH, STOP AND ONE-WAY STREETS:
Signs Posted: The superintendent of streets or any other person designated by
the mayor or city council shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for
all through streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections.
(1989 Code § 8-41)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-302, 625 ILCS 5/11-904, 625 ILCS 5/11-
708
6-4-2: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle on
any street, in an urban district within the city at a speed in excess of thirty
(30) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles
per hour.
      2.   If the city council, by ordinance, sets other speed limits as
provided by the Illinois Vehicle Code after an engineering or traffic
investigation, then such limits shall govern the rate of speed on the streets
indicated in such ordinance. The superintendent of streets shall post
appropriate signs giving notice of such speed limits at the proper places or
along the proper part or zone of the applicable street or highway.
6-4-3: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn
at any place where such a turn is prohibited by ordinance.
(1989 Code § 8-77)
   B.   No Left Turn: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor
vehicle to turn left at any place where such a turn is prohibited by ordinance.
(1989 Code § 8-78; amd. 2017 Code)
6-4-4: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Toy Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person on any skates,
skateboard, coaster, sled or other toy vehicle:
      1.   To go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk; or
      2.   To go upon sidewalks in business districts.
(1989 Code § 8-95)
   B.   Riding On Fenders Or Running Boards: It shall be unlawful for any
person to ride upon the fenders, running board or outside step of any privately
owned vehicle.
(1989 Code § 8-96)
CHAPTER 5: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
6-5-1: General Parking Restrictions
6-5-2: Parking Trailers, Motor Homes And Nonmotorized Vehicles On Public Ways
6-5-3: Truck, Truck-Tractor, Refrigerated Truck And Bus Parking
6-5-4: Signs Posted
6-5-5: Prima Facie Proof
6-5-6: Penalties
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fines in lieu of court
appearance
6-5-1: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less then ten feet (10') of the
width of the alley for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1989 Code § 8-174)
   B.   Bus Loading Zones: No vehicle, other than a bus, shall be parked in a
place designated as a bus loading zone.
(1989 Code § 8-175)
   C.   Time Limit Parking: Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park any vehicle in a limited parking area for a longer
consecutive period of time than that designated by an official sign between the
hours of nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) p.m.
(1989 Code § 8-176)
   D.   Parking During Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle on any public street, alley or city owned or leased parking
lot in the city at any time within twelve (12) hours after a snowfall of three
inches (3") or more has occurred or until the snow has been removed therefrom,
whichever shall occur sooner. Vehicles parked in violation of this subsection
may be removed at the owner’s expense.
(1989 Code § 8-177)
   E.   Vehicles For Sale; Sales Of Merchandise: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of displaying it
for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle
merchandise is peddled.
   F.   Fire Zone: No vehicle, other than an authorized fire department
vehicle, shall be parked in a place designated as a fire zone.
   G.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in obedience to an official traffic
control device, in front of or directly across from a public or private
driveway on any street within the city when such street is thirty feet (30') or
less, measured from the exterior face of curb to the exterior face of the
opposite curb, or if no curb is present, from the edge of the pavement to the
opposite edge of the pavement.
(1989 Code § 8-171)
6-5-2: PARKING TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES, AND NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Parking Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to be parked,
any trailer, motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, golf cart, all-terrain
vehicle, or nonmotorized vehicle which is owned, operated, controlled by, or
registered to such person on any street, alley, or other public way within the
corporate limits of the city.
6-5-3: TRUCK, TRUCK-TRACTOR, REFRIGERATED TRUCK AND BUS PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following definitions:
   LARGER TRUCK: Any motor truck with a D license or larger.
   REFRIGERATED TRUCK: A truck, trailer or other moveable container which is
refrigerated by means of an internal combustion engine as its source of power.
   B.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall park, leave or store any larger truck, truck-
tractor, bus or refrigerated truck on the streets of the city except under the
following circumstances.
         a.   When a bona fide delivery is being made for the reasonable time
required.
         b.   Where the vehicle is mechanically disabled for the reasonable
time required to remove same for repair.
      2.   No person may park, leave or store any refrigerated truck while its
refrigeration engine is operating, or any truck or truck-tractor with its
engine running, when parked in a residential zone or within five hundred feet
(500') of any residential zone, except when the truck is for institutional or
governmental use.
(Ord. O-14-11-02-51, eff. 11-3-2014)
6-5-4: SIGNS POSTED:
The superintendent of streets or any other person authorized by the mayor or
city council shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(1989 Code § 8-168)
6-5-5: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
the person in whose name such vehicle is legally registered shall be considered
prima facie proof that such person is responsible for such violation and
subject to the penalty therefor.
(1989 Code § 8-167)
6-5-6: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of this chapter,
including article 5A, shall be assessed fines as follows:
   A.   Park in a metered stall in violation of section
6-5-2, whenever paid, fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Parking in an area reserved for persons with disabilities, whenever
paid: three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
(1989 Code § 8-166; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Parking in violation of section
6-5-3 , whenever paid: fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Parking in violation of any other provision of this chapter:
      1.   If paid within twenty four (24) hours: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
      2.   If paid more than twenty four (24) hours and less than seventy two
(72) hours: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      3.   If paid over seventy two (72) hours: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
(1989 Code § 8-166)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
6-5A-8 of this chapter
ARTICLE 5A: PARKING METERS AND ZONES
Section
6-5A-1: Definitions
6-5A-2: Parking Meter Zones
6-5A-3: Parking Rules
6-5A-4: Placement Of Meters
6-5A-5: Marking Parking Places
6-5A-6: Use Of Coins
6-5A-7: Prohibited Acts
6-5A-8: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1307
6-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
HOLIDAYS: January 1, May 30, July 4, the first Monday in September, December 25
(Christmas) and Thanksgiving Day.
6-5A-2: PARKING METER ZONES:
Parking meter zones shall be such as may from time to time be established by
ordinance.
(1989 Code § 8-198)
6-5A-3: PARKING RULES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Park any vehicle, or to permit a vehicle to remain parked, in any
parking meter zone for a period longer than designated on the meter, between
the hours designated thereon, except on Sundays and holidays;
   B.   Park a vehicle in any parking meter zone without paying the fee
designated in this article; or
   C.   Permit a vehicle to remain parked longer in any such zone than for the
period for which the fee was paid;
except on Sundays and holidays, and except two (2) 3-day dollar day events
designated by the mayor at the request of the city retail merchants and except
park days and sidewalk days as designated by the mayor, on which days, the
meters shall be covered but parking shall be limited to one hour in each
parking stall.
(1989 Code § 8-199)
   D.   If for any reason the parking meter serving a space or meter zone is
malfunctioning due to the accumulation of ice or snow and it has been reported
to the local authorities as malfunctioning prior to a violation for the
standing or parking of vehicles being issued, it shall be a valid affirmative
defense to such violation until such time as the parking meter is brought back
into service.
6-5A-4: PLACEMENT OF METERS:
Parking meters shall be installed in the parking meter zones and shall be
placed upon the curb immediately adjacent to the individual parking places.
Each parking meter shall be placed or set in such a manner as to show or
display by a signal whether or not the parking space adjacent to such meter is
legally in use.
(1989 Code § 8-200)
6-5A-5: MARKING PARKING PLACES:
The superintendent of streets shall have markers painted or placed upon the
curb of the street adjacent to each parking meter for the purposes of
designating the parking space and the angle at which vehicles are parked to the
curb. Each vehicle parking within any parking meter zone shall park within the
line or markings so established. It shall be unlawful for any person to park
any vehicle across any such line or marking or to park such vehicle in such
position that the same shall not be entirely within the area designated by such
lines or markings.
(1989 Code § 8-201)
6-5A-6: USE OF COINS:
Any person desiring to park any vehicle within a parking meter space shall
deposit the proper coins for the time desired as follows:
   A.   One cent ($0.01) for each twelve (12) minutes of time desired.
   B.   Five cents ($0.05) for each hour of time desired.
   C.   Ten cents ($0.10) for two (2) hours of time desired.
(1989 Code § 8-202)
6-5A-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Tampering With, Damage To Meters: It shall be unlawful for any person
not authorized by the city council to deface, injure, tamper with, open or
wilfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed
under the provisions of this article.
   B.   Use Of Slugs: It shall be unlawful to deposit any slug, device or
metallic or other substitute for a coin in any parking meter.
(1989 Code § 8-203)
6-5A-8: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to pay the amount for the use of any parking meter within
the time specified thereon shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than five
dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
(1989 Code § 8-197)
Cross-reference:
   See also subsection
6-5-5 of this chapter
CHAPTER 6: RESERVED
CHAPTER 7: RESERVED
CHAPTER 8: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERBLADES
Section
6-8-1: Bicycles
6-8-1-1: Operation Of Bicycles
6-8-1-2: Parking Bicycles
6-8-2: Operation Of Skateboards And Rollerblades
6-8-3: Compliance With Provisions
6-8-4: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
6-8-5: Penalty
6-8-1: BICYCLES:
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1501 et seq.
6-8-1-1: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Sidewalks:
      1.   Except in business districts and as provided in this subsection,
bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
(1989 Code § 8-298)
      2.   Pedestrians shall have the right of way at all times over bicycles.
A person riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk crossing shall either
turn off the sidewalk when meeting or passing pedestrians or shall dismount
until the pedestrians have passed.
(1989 Code § 8-300)
   B.   Riding In A Group: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   D.   Trick Riding; Racing: No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands
from the handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or
fancy riding on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a
public highway participate in any race or speed or endurance contest with
another vehicle, except under a permit from and under the supervision of the
chief of police.
(1989 Code § 8-300)
6-8-1-2: PARKING BICYCLES:
   A.   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway.
   B.   Bicycles parked in an alley, in a public driveway, on a sidewalk, or on
a public path must be in such a position as not to interfere with the safety or
movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(1989 Code § 8-300)
6-8-2: OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERBLADES:
   A.   Except in business districts and as provided in this section,
skateboards and rollerblades may be ridden on sidewalks.
   B.   Pedestrians shall have the right of way at all times over skateboards
and rollerblades. A person riding a skateboard upon a sidewalk or sidewalk
crossing shall either turn off the sidewalk when meeting or passing pedestrians
or shall dismount until the pedestrians have passed. A person skating on
rollerblades upon a sidewalk or sidewalk crossing shall turn off the sidewalk
when meeting or passing pedestrians.
(1989 Code § 8-301)
Cross-reference:
   See subsections
6-4-4A and B of this title
6-8-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this chapter.
(1989 Code § 8-297)
6-8-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(1989 Code § 8-297)
6-8-5: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1989 Code § 8-296)
CHAPTER 9: UNUSED AND INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
6-9-1: Definitions
6-9-2: Leaving, Storing Vehicles Prohibited; Nuisance Declared; Exemptions
6-9-3: Notices To Remove
6-9-4: Hearing
6-9-5: Failure To Comply; Removal By City
6-9-6: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle
6-9-7: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles; Disposition Of Proceeds
6-9-8: Remedy Not Exclusive
6-9-9: Liability
6-9-10: Penalty
6-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own power. “Inoperable motor vehicle” shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
MOTOR VEHICLE NOT REGULARLY USED: Any motor vehicle which:
   A.   Has not been driven off the premises where it is parked or stored under
its own motor power for a period longer than three (3) months;
   B.   Is not registered, licensed or properly displaying registration plates
or stickers as required by the Illinois vehicle code; or
   C.   Exhibits damaged parts or appears to be in a state of disrepair,
including but not limited to, broken and missing windows, body panels with
holes, and fluid leaks which pose an open threat of injury or contamination for
a period longer than fourteen (14) days.
6-9-2: LEAVING, STORING VEHICLES PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall park, store or leave, or permit the parking, storing or
leaving, of any inoperable motor vehicle or motor vehicle not regularly used,
whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within the city
for a period of time in excess of seven (7) days. The presence of an inoperable
motor vehicle, motor vehicle not regularly used, or parts thereof, on private
or public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This section shall not
apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to
operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor
vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in wrecking or junking
of motor vehicles.
(1989 Code § 8-230)
   B.   No person shall be deemed to cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to
exist if such person:
      1.   Has an ownership interest in or is in control of the inoperable
motor vehicle or motor vehicle not regularly used;
      2.   Causes the inoperable motor vehicle or motor vehicle not regularly
used to be deposited at the site in question;
      3.   Has an ownership interest in the real estate upon which the
inoperable motor vehicle or motor vehicle not regularly used is located;
      4.   Has an ownership interest in or operates a business which causes,
permits or allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the
business is operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of
the business owner or operator; or
      5.   Has an ownership interest in real estate upon which a business is
being operated and the operator or owner of said business causes, permits or
allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the business is
being operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of the
person having an ownership interest in real estate upon which said business is
being operated.
6-9-3: NOTICES TO REMOVE:
   A.   Public Property: Whenever any person causes, permits or allows a
nuisance under this chapter to exist or be stored on public property, the chief
of police shall have the authority to direct the removal of the motor vehicle
in accordance with chapter 4, article 2 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   B.   Private Property: Whenever any person causes, permits or allows a
nuisance under this chapter to exist or be stored on private property, the
chief of police shall have the power to authorize removal of the motor vehicle.
Before a motor vehicle can be removed from private property, the chief of
police or his or her designee shall serve a written notice to abate upon the
person who is causing, permitting or allowing the nuisance to exist or be
stored on private property and in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   Notice shall be served either personally or by certified mail upon
the person who is causing, permitting or allowing the nuisance to exist or be
stored on private property. Personal service shall be by a local law
enforcement officer or any person authorized by law to make personal service.
      2.   The notice shall describe the motor vehicle to be removed and give
the person served seven (7) days from the date of service of the notice to
either abate the nuisance or request a hearing on the question of whether the
vehicle is an inoperable motor vehicle or motor vehicle not regularly used.
6-9-4: HEARING:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: The person who is causing, permitting or
allowing the nuisance to exist or be stored on private property shall have
seven (7) days from the date of service of the notice to submit a written
request for a hearing on the question of whether the described motor vehicle is
an inoperable motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle not regularly used within the
meaning of this chapter with the city clerk. If the recipient of the notice
does not file a written request for hearing within the seven (7) day period,
any hearing rights under this section will be deemed waived, and the city may,
at its option, cause the abatement of the nuisance in accordance with this
chapter. Hearings shall be held by an administrative hearing officer.
   B.   Scheduling Of Hearings: If a hearing is requested within the seven (7)
day period, the hearing shall be scheduled to occur within thirty (30) days
after the request for a hearing is received by the city clerk. The person
making the request for a hearing shall be provided with reasonable notice of
the hearing date and time in person or by first-class mail.
   C.   Nature Of Hearing: The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any nuisance citation issued to the person who is causing,
permitting or allowing the nuisance to exist or be stored on private property.
After receiving all relevant evidence, the administrative hearing officer shall
make a written decision based upon a preponderance of the evidence as to
whether the motor vehicle constitutes an inoperable motor vehicle and/or motor
vehicle not regularly used within the meaning of this chapter.
   D.   Hearing Decision: The person who requested the hearing shall be
provided a copy of the hearing decision within seven (7) days of the decision
in person or by first-class mail. If the hearing officer determines that the
motor vehicle is an inoperable motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle not regularly
used, then the notice to abate shall become effective from and after the date
such determination is served on the person who requested the hearing, and the
city may, at its option, cause the removal of the motor vehicle in accordance
with chapter 4, article 2 of the Illinois vehicle code. The person shall be
responsible for all costs related to the towing, storage, disposal, and
processing of the motor vehicle.
6-9-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMOVAL BY CITY:
   A.   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within
the seven (7) day period of compliance, or if the notice requesting a hearing
is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the existence of the violation is
affirmed by the administrative hearing officer, the chief of police or his or
her designee shall have the right to take possession of the inoperable motor
vehicle, motor vehicle not regularly used, or part thereof, and remove it from
the premises.
   B.   In order to remove a motor vehicle under this chapter from private
property, the city must first apply to the circuit court of Bureau county and
request the court to issue a warrant for the removal of said motor vehicle.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse
to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for the purpose
of removing said inoperable motor vehicle, or part thereof, under the
provisions of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 8-235)
6-9-6: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
or reclaim such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof in accordance with this chapter, upon presenting proof of
ownership or proof of the right to possession to the chief of police or his or
her designee, and payment all applicable towing, storage and processing
charges.
(1989 Code § 8-237)
6-9-7: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
Following the removal of any motor vehicle as provided in this chapter, the
disposal of such unclaimed motor vehicle and the disposition of any proceeds
thereof shall be in accordance with chapter 4, article 2 of the Illinois
vehicle code.
6-9-8: REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing upon the city, a duty to
abate the nuisance as specified in this chapter. The action authorized by this
chapter shall be in addition to and without waiver of any other remedies.
6-9-9: LIABILITY:
Any police officer, the police department or a towing service owner, operator
or employee shall not be held liable for damages in any action brought by the
registered owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative,
lienholder or any person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle
when the motor vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
6-9-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each act in violation of any provision hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1989 Code § 8-228)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
7-1-1: Sidewalk Construction
7-1-2: Obstructing Public Ways
7-1-3: Depositing Refuse Onto Public Ways
7-1-4: Connection Of Private Drains To Tile Drains
7-1-5: Awnings
7-1-1: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Materials And Specifications: All sidewalks hereafter constructed
within the city upon any street or alley or any part thereof, shall be
constructed of cement concrete unless the city council shall provide otherwise.
In order to construct or repair a sidewalk within the corporate limits of the
city, one must apply for and receive a permit to build or repair within the
city’s right of way. Sidewalks must be constructed or repaired according to the
specifications approved in the right of way permit.
   B.   Special Ordinance Required: The city may require a lot, block, tract or
parcel owner to construct or repair a sidewalk that touches the line of the
sidewalk by special ordinance pursuant to the requirements set forth in 65 ILCS
5/11-84 et al. The city may levy a tax against that lot, block, tract or parcel
owner in order to pay for any part or all of the construction or repair of a
required sidewalk pursuant to the requirements set forth in 65 ILCS 5/11-84 et
al.
   C.   All of the contracts shall be approved by the mayor, or in the case the
board of local improvements shall have the supervision of the construction of
any sidewalks, then such contract shall be approved by the president of the
board.
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Nuisance Obstructions:
      1.   Every obstruction or encumbrance of any street, alley, lane, avenue,
sidewalk, crossing or public square within the corporate limits of the city,
including but not limited to firewood, lumber, barrels, boxes, manure,
merchandise or other things, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, unless
authorized by the city. Any person who shall so obstruct or encumber any
street, alley, lane, avenue, sidewalk, crossing or public square, or who shall
cause or suffer the same to be so obstructed or encumbered, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of in this code;
and if any such person shall then neglect or refuse immediately to remove such
nuisance, after having been notified by the city to remove the same, he or she
shall, upon conviction of such neglect or refusal, be fined as in provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each day said nuisance shall exist, shall
constitute a separate violation and shall be subject to a fine for each day the
nuisance remains. An exception to the obstruction of a street, alley, lane,
avenue, sidewalk, crossing or public square is any person loading or unloading
merchandise or household goods at a dwelling house or at any place of business
within the city limits. Such person shall have a reasonable time, not exceeding
two (2) hours, within which to effect the same without being in violation of
this section.
      2.   When a building is to be erected, the necessary materials to
construct the same may occupy so much of the street, alley or lane in front of
the sidewalk of such building as shall not exceed one- fourth (1/4) of the
width of the street, alley or lane, for a reasonable time but not more than
sixty (60) days. The city shall be notified of such obstruction prior to the
materials being placed in said street, alley, or lane.
   B.   Erection Of Structures: No person shall erect or place any building or
fence, in whole or in part, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
ground within the city limits, and any person in violation of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code;
provided, that any person desiring to move any house or other building from one
portion of the city to another shall be allowed a reasonable time within which
to accomplish the same after notice to and approval from the city.
   C.   Display Of Merchandise: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
store or display upon the space between the sidewalk and the streets of the
city any goods, wares or merchandise, in boxes or otherwise, including
machinery, vehicles or other articles for use or sale.
7-1-3: DEPOSITING REFUSE ONTO PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or in any other manner
deposit any dirt, trash, scraps or pieces of paper or other materials, ashes,
cinders or any other refuse matter of any kind, from any dwelling house, store,
grocery, shop, office, hotel or other place of business or building or
premises, onto or upon any public street, public avenue, public square or
public grounds within the city limits, or onto or upon any sidewalk or
crosswalk in any such street, avenue, public square or public grounds, without
the consent of the city council. Any owner(s), lessee(s), proprietor, occupant
(s) of any dwelling house, store, grocery, shop, office, hotel or other place
of business or building or premises who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section, or cause the same to be violated, or suffer or permit the same to
be violated, by any person in his or her employ, or as his or her agent or
otherwise, shall be subject to the penalty provided in title 1, chapter 4 of
this code.
Cross-reference:
   See also subsection 8-4-8B of this code
7-1-4: CONNECTION OF PRIVATE DRAINS TO TILE DRAINS:
The connection of all private drains with the tile drains constructed by the
city shall be made under and in accordance with the direction of the
superintendent of streets. Every person who shall, without the permission in
writing of the superintendent of streets, dig any ditch or trench in or upon
any street, alley, park or public ground, or connect any drain with any of the
tile drains constructed by the city, or injure or disturb, in any manner, any
such tile drain, shall be subject to the penalty as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. Such penalty shall not apply to work done by the
employees or agents of the city at the direction of the superintendent of
streets.
7-1-5: AWNINGS:
   A.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, build or
construct any awning over, upon or across the sidewalk in, upon and along Main
Street in the city that shall rest, in whole or in part, upon the sidewalk or
in the street in front of or outside of the sidewalk, nor shall any awning or
any material attached or fastened thereto extend down to within six and one-
half feet (6-1/2') of the surface of the sidewalk in front of the building to
which the awning is attached. Awnings shall be constructed of cloth, iron,
steel or other metal, but not wood or other material. However wooden rollers or
rods may be used in connection with cloth awnings, and metal roofs or awnings
may rest upon wooden stringers.
   B.   Removal: All awnings that have been erected, built or constructed in,
upon or over the sidewalk, or in, upon or over Main Street in the city, and
resting in whole or in part upon the sidewalk or in the street in front of or
outside of the sidewalk, or are awnings as are prohibited to be constructed in
subsection A of this section shall be removed within 30 days of notice from the
city that the awning is in violation of this section of the code. Should the
awning not be removed within the 30 days of the notice, the city may remove
such awning and may bill the owner for the cost of said removal. The city shall
have all remedies at law available to it to collect said costs and fines.
ARTICLE 1A: EXCAVATIONS
Section
7-1A-1: Short Title
7-1A-2: Definitions
7-1A-3: Permit Required
7-1A-4: Application For Permit
7-1A-5: Bond Requirements
7-1A-6: Fees And Costs
7-1A-7: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
7-1A-8: Emergency Excavations
7-1A-9: Specifications And Restrictions
7-1A-10: Supervision And Enforcement
7-1A-11: Revocation, Expiration Of Permit
7-1A-12: Exemptions From Provisions; Conflicts
7-1A-13: Penalty
7-1A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known as the STREET OPENINGS AND CLOSINGS ORDINANCE.
7-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ENGINEER: The engineer for the city of Princeton.
FRANCHISED UTILITY: Any private or public organization operating and
maintaining equipment for the use of the public in, on or over a public right
of way under terms of a franchise granted by the city council.
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS: The superintendent of streets of the city or his or
her duly authorized representative.
7-1A-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any
excavation in any street, alley or public right of way in the city without
first making application for and obtaining a permit from the engineer or
superintendent of streets as provided in this article.
   B.   A permit may be issued for more than one simultaneous cut or street
opening; provided, that the work is in one contiguous area (lying in connecting
street blocks).
7-1A-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for permits under this article shall be made in duplicate at the
office of the engineer or superintendent of streets and shall show:
(1989 Code § 11-91)
   A.   The location, extent and details of the proposed work and description
of abutting property, by means of sketch.
   B.   The name and address of the person for whom the work is being done.
   C.   The name and address of the person performing the work.
   D.   A certificate that the applicant is authorized to act on behalf of the
owner (if other than the owner applies) and has received a copy of this article
and any specifications applicable thereto and will comply with the provisions
contained therein, and will comply with all other ordinance provisions of the
city applicable to the work.
   E.   A certificate that the applicant has notified private utilities under
franchise to the city of proposed work. Franchised utilities that certify by
letter that arrangements satisfactory to other franchised utilities have been
made for adequate protection of their facilities shall not be required to
execute individual certificates.
   F.   The estimated cost of the work, when deemed necessary.
   G.   The estimated date of the commencement and completion of the work;
however, in no case shall the completion of the work be later than three (3)
months after the date the permit is issued; provided, that at the time of
application, the engineer or superintendent of streets may, for work of
considerable magnitude, authorize such three (3) month limit to be extended for
a definite period of time necessary to complete the work; provided, at any time
prior to the expiration thereof where the permittee has made application in
writing to the engineer or superintendent of streets, setting forth the
justification for such extension, the engineer or superintendent of streets may
extend the permit time limit if the engineer or superintendent of streets finds
such extension of time is justified.
   H.   If the applicant elects to construct a temporary patch in an existing
paved street to be replaced later by a permanent patch, the following procedure
on this portion of the work only shall apply:
      1.   Temporary patchwork shall be completed within the time limit as set
forth in subsection G of this section. The applicant shall inspect such patch
at regular, and not to exceed monthly, intervals, or on notification by the
city, and maintain the patch in good condition and to finished pavement grade
at all times. The applicant shall notify the engineer or superintendent of
streets upon completion of all temporary patches.
      2.   Temporary patches placed prior to October 1 of each year shall be
replaced by permanent patches within sixty (60) days, but in no case later than
the first frost of each year. Temporary patches placed after October 1 of each
year shall be replaced by permanent patches prior to April 1 of the following
year.
      3.   Exceptions to this subsection may be made by the engineer or
superintendent of streets due to weather conditions making these provisions
inoperative.
   I.   Such other information as the engineer or superintendent of streets
shall deem reasonably necessary for the determination of whether a permit
should be issued under this article.
7-1A-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The following bonds or equivalent shall accompany an application for permit
under this article, and such bonds shall be in a form approved by the city
attorney:
(1989 Code § 11-94)
   A.   Maintenance And Construction Bond: The applicant shall furnish the city
a maintenance and construction bond to be filed with the application for permit
in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the work to be done and conditioned
that such work shall be done in accordance with the city’s standard
specifications and guaranteeing the same for a period of one year after the
date of completion. The applicant may substitute for the bond an amount of cash
equal to the cost of the work, which amount shall be left on deposit with the
city during the guarantee period. In lieu of individual bonds and with the
approval of the engineer or the superintendent of streets, the applicant may
file with the city a blanket bond on or before January 1 of each year in an
amount equal to the total cost of street work done by the applicant in the
preceding calendar year, conditioned as specified for individual permit bonds.
If the engineer or the superintendent of streets determines that the work in
any one year may exceed this amount, the engineer or superintendent of streets
may require an additional bond to be filed in an amount estimated to cover the
cost of the work he or she estimates will be performed during the balance of
the year. If the permittee fails to comply with the requirements of this
article or defaults, the engineer or the superintendent of streets shall order
completion or correction of the work by the city and shall recover the cost
from the permittee as required by law.
   B.   Indemnity Bond: The applicant shall file with the application for
permit an indemnity bond, conditioned to protect and save harmless the city
from all claims for damages or injury to persons or property by reason of work
performed under this article. The bond shall be in an amount of not less than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) and shall remain in effect during the
guarantee period; however, if a blanket indemnity insurance policy in the
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) saving the city against
any loss or liability due to such work is secured by the applicant and filed
with the city clerk, no such bond shall be required. Such policy shall be
noncancellable for thirty (30) days after notification to the city of intent to
cancel has been made by the applicant or insurer.
(1989 Code § 11-94)
7-1A-6: FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Fees Established: The filing (inspection) fees, which shall be
determined for each permit as provided in the city fee schedule, shall
accompany an application for a permit under this article.
   B.   Additional Costs: The applicant shall, in addition to a filing fee, pay
the actual costs of engineering and inspection when the work under the permit
is greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in value, value to be
determined by the engineer. In lieu thereof, the applicant may furnish
inspection services at his or her own expense; provided, that such inspection
service is approved by the engineer or the superintendent of streets at the
time of issuance of the permit, and inspection reports are furnished the city
as may be required by the engineer.
7-1A-7: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   The engineer shall forward each application for a permit under this
article to the superintendent of streets for his or her recommendation prior to
review and approval and issuance of the permit. If application under this
article is submitted to the office of the superintendent of streets, he or she
shall forward each application for permit to the engineer, along with a
recommendation as to whether the engineer should approve the application and
issue a permit.
   B.   Permits may be denied if the applicant shall have previously failed to
follow the provisions of this article or correct improper work after due
notification by the engineer or the superintendent of streets.
   C.   A notice of issuance of permit for street work shall be sent to
appropriate departments of the city as determined by the engineer and the
superintendent of streets.
   D.   No permits shall be issued by the engineer or the superintendent of
streets for cuts in resurfaced or newly paved streets for a period of three (3)
years after completion of such paving except as specifically provided as
follows:
      1.   Where hazard to health, safety or life exists and must be corrected,
the engineer shall issue a permit upon finding that such condition exists.
      2.   Where the applicant shows that he or she was unable, due to economic
or unforeseen circumstances prior to the resurfacing or paving of the street,
to accomplish the work set forth in the application for permit, and that the
denial of such permit will work hardship on him or her, the engineer or
superintendent of streets shall approve such application if the facts warrant
such action. If the application is denied, the applicant may appeal to the city
council who may authorize the issuance of the permit after review of the
application, all data and the recommendation and review of the engineer and
superintendent of streets.
7-1A-8: EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
In the event of emergency work during working hours, persons shall contact the
engineer or the superintendent of streets in person or by phone, describing the
work, the location and the reason for the necessity of proceeding immediately,
and shall obtain verbal approval from the engineer. Formal application covering
such work shall be made within twenty four (24) hours thereafter. If an
emergency arises after working hours or on days when the engineer and the
superintendent of street’s offices are closed, work may be accomplished in
accordance with this article followed by formal application on the next working
day; provided, that the street department’s on-call emergency contact is
immediately notified of the emergency, in person or by telephone, by the person
performing the work.
7-1A-9: SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All work performed under permits issued in accordance with this article
shall be done in conformity with specifications prepared by the engineer and
the superintendent of streets and copies of applicable city ordinances shall be
furnished each applicant for a permit at no cost.
   B.   In addition, the work shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The operation shall not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces, and the means
of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties. Where
pedestrian traffic must be detoured, temporary sidewalks shall be constructed
or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for users.
      2.   The health, welfare and safety of the public shall not be
unreasonably impaired.
7-1A-10: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The engineer and the superintendent of streets shall enforce the
provisions of this article and shall from time to time cause inspections to be
made of work under permits to ensure that the provisions of this article and
specifications are being followed.
   B.   Notice shall be given to the engineer or the superintendent of streets
by the permittee at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of commencement of
work under a permit.
   C.   Apparent violations of this article shall be reported immediately by
police, fire, public works or other city officials or employees to the engineer
or the superintendent of streets for investigation.
7-1A-11: REVOCATION, EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Revocation: The engineer or superintendent of streets may revoke any
permit and stop work upon finding that work is not being done in accordance
with this article or specifications.
   B.   Expiration: Permits shall become null and void if work is not commenced
within thirty (30) days after the estimated date of commencement of work as
shown on the application for permit. In any case where no work commences under
a permit within six (6) months of the date of issuance of permit, the permit
shall become null and void and a new application shall be submitted for the
work. Lack of required notification by the permittee to the engineer or the
superintendent of streets prior to expiration dates shall be prima facie
evidence to cause nullification of the permit.
7-1A-12: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS; CONFLICTS:
   A.   The provisions of this article pertaining to the issuance of a permit
shall not apply to officers or employees of the city engaged in doing work for
the city.
   B.   Excavations in tree banks for service connections by franchised
utilities or replacement or repair of existing utility poles and appurtenances
not requiring replacement or repair of any existing street improvements shall
not require permits; provided, that all applicable provisions of this article
are observed.
   C.   The provisions of any ordinance granting a franchise to a public
utility, now or hereafter in effect, shall prevail over any conflicting
provisions of this article.
7-1A-13: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
CHAPTER 2: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
7-2-1: Short Title
7-2-2: Purpose And Intent
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Tree Commission
7-2-5: Authority Of City To Plant, Maintain And Remove
7-2-6: Location Restrictions
7-2-7: Responsibility Of Property Owners
7-2-8: Removal Of Stumps
7-2-9: Tree Topping Prohibited
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PRINCETON TREE ORDINANCE.
7-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the
public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of
the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within
the city.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed to promote the following:
      1.   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the city; and
      2.   The protection of the residents of the city from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the city from property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees, shrubs or
other plants located within the city.
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CITY OWNED PROPERTY: Property located within the city limits either:
   A.   Owned by the city in fee simple; or
   B.   Impliedly or expressly dedicated to the city.
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of land.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying within the city rights of way for all streets, avenues, alleys or ways
within the city.
TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS: All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except lawn
grass or flowers that are less than twenty four inches (24") in height.
7-2-4: TREE COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created; Composition: There is hereby created a tree
commission, which shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the mayor and
city council. Members shall be residents or property owners in the city,
including at least one member being a state certified arborist or an
established tree nursery person. Members shall serve for a term of three (3)
years, except for the inaugural terms whereby three (3) members shall serve
until 4-30-2022 and two (2) members shall serve until 4-30-2023. Thereafter,
all service shall be in full three (3) year terms. Members may be re-appointed.
(Ord. O-20-01, 11-2-2020)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the commission to investigate,
counsel, update annually and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting and removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs along city streets and other public places. Such plan will be
presented annually to the city council and, upon acceptance, shall constitute
the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
      2.   The city tree commission shall determine, with the assistance of any
experts the commission wishes to consult, a list of street tree species for the
city. This list shall be used to select appropriate trees to be planted on city
rights of way and shall become part of the overall comprehensive tree plan for
the city.
7-2-5: AUTHORITY OF CITY TO PLANT, MAINTAIN AND REMOVE:
   A.   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and other shrubs within the rights of way of all streets,
avenues, alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public ways and grounds.
   B.   The city may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious
to the sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pests
if such trees are located on city rights of way or property.
7-2-6: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No street trees shall be planted within thirty five feet (35') of any
street corner measured from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curb
lines.
   B.   No street trees shall be planted within ten feet (10') of any fire
hydrant.
7-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the city
shall prune the branches so that such branches do not obstruct the light from
any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection so that there
is a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a danger to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight or interferes with the visibility of any traffic control device or
sign.
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
The city shall remove the stumps of street and park trees below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
7-2-9: TREE TOPPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or company to top any street tree, park
tree or other tree on public property. “Topping” is defined as severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under
utility lines or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempt from this section. The city will determine which
trees are exempt upon the request of a utility company or lot owner.
CHAPTER 2A: TREE CODE
Section
7-2A-1: Statement Of Purpose
7-2A-2: Definitions
7-2A-3: Preservation
7-2A-4: Planting
7-2A-5: Tree Care
7-2A-6: Tree Protection
7-2A-7: Legacy Tree Protection
7-2A-8: Tree Removal
7-2A-9: Tree Replacement
7-2A-10: Tree Preservation And/Or Removal Plan for Significant Removals
7-2A-11: Nuisance Trees
7-2A-12: Invasive Species Control
7-2A-13: Tree Board
7-2A-14: Tree Permit Procedure
7-2A-15: Permit Issuance
7-2A-16: Cash Bonds
7-2A-17: Final Inspection
7-2A-18: Compliance
7-2A-19: Penalty
7-2A-20: Enforcement
7-2A-21: Exceptions
7-2A-22: Appeals for Variance
7-2A-23: Civil Remedies
7-2A-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this tree preservation ordinance to promote and
protect the public health, environment, safety and general welfare by providing
for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs
and other plants within the city of Princeton, Illinois, (hereinafter referred
to as “Princeton” or “city”).
   B.   It is the intent of the city council of Princeton that the terms of
this chapter shall be construed so as to:
      1.   Protect, preserve and enhance the quality of life and general
welfare of the city, its residents and its property owners; and conserve and
enhance the city’s natural, physical and aesthetic environment.
      2.   Preserve, protect and enhance the urban forest to ensure that trees
are properly planted and maintained within the city so that trees can protect,
enhance and preserve the quality of life for people within the city.
      3.   Recognize that trees are an integral part of the infrastructure of
the city and as such should be preserved, protected and cared for as other
critical city infrastructure.
         a.   Trees absorb pollution from the air;
         b.   Trees absorb and sequester carbon dioxide;
         c.   Trees absorb and filter pollution from stormwater run-off;
         d.   Trees produce oxygen;
         e.   Trees reduce flooding;
         f.   Trees stabilize soils and reduce erosion;
         g.   Trees cool the surrounding area helping to reduce impacts due to
heat islands;
         h.   Trees reduce energy consumption by shielding structures from
harsh winds and sun;
         i.   Trees provide a buffer and screen against noise, light and
pollution;
         j.   Trees improve property values;
         k.   Trees improve commercial district buyer traffic and purchasing;
         l.   Areas with trees have lower crime rates;
         m.   Areas with trees have higher levels of community interaction;
         n.   Trees provide important habitat for birds and other wildlife; and
         o.   Trees protect and enhance our quality of life.
      4.   Trees provide the city collective benefits that extend beyond
property boundaries throughout the entire city.
      5.   Recognize that larger trees provide larger benefits. When a large
tree is removed and replaced with a smaller tree the benefits and services are
reduced.
      6.   Recognize that some trees may have a condition that constitutes a
threat, danger or nuisance to the public or property within the city or may be
dangerous to the health of other trees and vegetation in the city.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: An owner of a lot, parcel or tract of land for which an application
has been filed for a permit, subdivision, or any activity requiring the
issuance of a permit. A contractor is an agent, acting on behalf of the
applicant - the landowner.
ARBORIST: Any individual experienced in the profession of forestry or a related
field and is licensed or certified in forestry by an accredited forestry
industry body, e.g., International Society of Arboriculture.
BUILDING ACTIVITY AREA: The portion of a property within which development
activity, including grading, excavation, storage of materials, construction
access and construction of both main buildings and unattached structures.
CANOPY: The upper portion of a tree sometimes called the crown. This section of
the tree usually contains branches and leaves.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An area on the ground extending out from the trunk of the
tree in all directions a distance of at least one foot for every inch DBH.
CUTTING:
   A.   Felling or removal of a tree, or any procedure that results in the
death or substantial destruction of a tree.
   B.   Cutting that does not include normal pruning or trimming of trees
consistent with good forestry practices.
DAMAGE: Impact or loss of function to any tree including, but not limited to,
removal, root compaction, root removal, girdling, soil contamination, topping,
pruning more than 20% of the trees, canopy removal, bark removal, poisoning
and/or actions resulting in the decline or death of a tree.
DECIDUOUS TREE: A deciduous tree is one that loses most or all of its leaves
for part of the year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any proposed change in the use or character of land, including,
but not limited to, the replacement of any structure or site improvements,
e.g., irrigation installation, driveway replacement, installation of a
retaining wall among others. When appropriate to the context, development may
refer to the receipt or necessity of any building, tree or site work permit.
(See the Landscape Ordinance for more information.)
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): The diameter of the trunk of the tree measured
in inches at a point four and one-half feet (4.5') above ground line. This
forestry standard measurement is used for established and mature trees and is
referred to as “DBH”. All reference to diameter size shall be to the DBH.
EVERGREEN TREE: A tree that retains most of its leaves for most of the year.
URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN: A detailed plan developed and approved by the
city under the direction of a certified arborist or forester which protects
this valuable infrastructure and outlines thoughtful strategies for tree
planting, selection, care and preservation for the city and complies with
recognized national standards.
INFRASTRUCTURE: The basic underlying framework or features that provide
collective services, including, but not limited to, roads, waterlines, storm
sewers, bioswales and trees.
INVASIVE SPECIES: An introduced or exotic species that significantly modifies
or disrupts the ecosystem in which it colonizes (e.g., buckthorn).
LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR: A company or individual contracted to perform landscape
services.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A plan approved by the city defining the location and species
of plants and associated hardscape including grading.
LANDSCAPE MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan approved by the city outlining the strategies
for care and management of a specific type of landscape.
LANDSCAPING PROFESSIONAL: A registered landscape architect, horticulturalist or
other similarly degreed, experienced and/or licensed plant professional.
LEGACY TREE: A tree identified on the legacy tree list and which has been
recorded as such by the city. Legacy trees are provided special protection as
outlined in the legacy tree program.
NATURAL AMENITY EXCEPTION: A landscape and preservation plan intended as a
substitute for the replacement requirements of this section.
NUISANCE TREES: Nuisance trees are trees that may provide potential impacts to
other trees, people or structures. This would include, but not be limited to,
diseased, infested, structurally unsound trees or known invasive species.
PARCEL: A single parcel shall mean any lot of record, zoning lot or any
grouping of adjacent lots under single ownership, serving a principal structure
or use.
PREFERRED TREE LIST: A listing of tree species, identified in the city urban
forest management plan.
PROPERTY OWNER: An individual or organization who owns property located within
the corporate limits of the city.
SIGNIFICANT TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a legacy tree or grouping/stand of trees.
SIMPLE TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a tree without other associated site impacts or
other site improvements.
SITE: That parcel of land for which a permit for landscaping or tree removal is
sought.
STREET TREE: Any tree located on or within the public right-of-way or right-of-
way easement.
TRANSPLANTING TREE: The removal of any tree for replanting elsewhere. Any self-
supporting woody plant, together with its root system, trunk and canopy;
growing upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multi-stemmed trunk system,
supporting a definitely formed crown.
TREE BANK: A bank account established to receive and hold deposits for trees
which were damaged and/or removed. These funds, if not returned to the
applicant, may be used to purchase and care for trees throughout the city.
TREE PERMIT: A written authorization from the city authorizing the applicant to
conduct work which may or may not impact a tree.
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A document required by a permit which identifies, by
common name and/or scientific name, certain species of trees of a specified DBH
within a particular area. The plan shall list all existing and proposed trees
and shall specifically state how each tree is proposed to be destroyed,
relocated, replaced, preserved at its present location, introduced into the
site from an off-site source, and whether the tree is to receive remediated
actions due to construction impacts, e.g. root pruning. The city may provide
that the tree preservation plan excludes those portions of the site which it
determines will not be affected by the activity. Any tree preservation plan
required by this section must be dated within thirty six (36) months of the
start date of the proposed activity.
TREE REMOVAL: The cutting down, destruction, removal or relocation of any tree,
including damaging by poison or other direct or indirect action.
VIABLE: A tree, which in the judgment of the city, is capable of sustaining its
own life processes, unaided by man, for a reasonable period of time.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-3: PRESERVATION:
   A.   The city shall consult with at least one certified arborist. Any urban
forestry work completed by a contractor within the city shall be under the
direction of a certified arborist. These individuals are responsible for
enforcement and compliance of the urban forest management plan.
   B.   The city shall have an urban forest inventory of publicly owned trees.
This inventory shall be maintained in a current state. Re-inventory may be
required every five (5) to seven (7) years unless the inventory is updated with
the pruning cycle or is updated as part of routine tree maintenance.
   C.   1.   The city shall have an approved urban forest management plan. This
plan shall be the framework for the protection, management and planting of
trees within the city and shall support and clearly define regulations
identified in the tree preservation ordinance.
      2.   This plan shall include the following:
         a.   A defined ten (10) year urban forestry strategy with clearly
identified one (1), five (5) and ten (10) years goals;
         b.   Community canopy mapping identifying existing tree canopy and
priority locations for planting;
         c.   A strategy for completion and maintenance of a tree inventory on
public;
         d.   Clear guidelines on tree species and age diversity;
         e.   Clear identification of replacement value and requirements for
tree removal or damage;
         f.   A preferred tree list;
         g.   Clearly defined specifications for tree planting, pruning and
impact reduction;
         h.   A risk assessment and management program;
         i.   A legacy tree preservation and protection program including a
legacy tree list;
         j.   A strategy for administration and implementation of a volunteer
program;
         k.   Clear identification of staff qualifications, training, support
and needs;
         l.   Specifications for contracted labor and consulting;
         m.   Clear identification of forestry equipment and resource needs;
and
         n.   A forestry budget with one (1), five (5) and ten (10) year
commitments.
   D.   The city shall require that any contractor, working for the city who
may interact or have impact on the city public property urban forest attain a
tree permit to perform all work pertaining to trees, including, but not limited
to, removal, pruning and planting activities.
   E.   Legacy trees are provided special protection by the city. (See the
urban forest management plan for legacy trees program.)
   F.   All tree planting, selection and management shall be in compliance with
the urban forest management plan.
   G.   It is recognized that diverse species and age structure of urban trees
throughout city are critical to the health of the forest structure and protects
the city from catastrophic loss and improved longevity. Specifications for
species and age diversity, planting and management are contained in the urban
forest management plan.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-4: PLANTING:
   A.   As outlined in the urban forest management plan, the city shall plant,
and recommend to private landowners, diverse species with the ratio of not more
than twenty percent (20%) of any one family, ten percent (10%) of any one genus
or five percent (5%) of any one species, with the exception of naturalized
areas where species selections are based on the natural species assemblages as
defined in the urban forest management plan. Diverse species composition
protects the city from catastrophic loss.
   B.   All trees planted by the city or its agent shall be planted in
accordance with the urban forest management plan.
   C.   Trees purchased by the city shall meet the specifications required in
the urban forest management plan.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in the public right-of-
way, or on other publicly owned property, without prior written approval from
the city.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree under utility wires that is
anticipated to grow to a height that will interfere with the wires.
   F.   The city shall implement a growing program. This program will allow for
stable pricing and broader species diversity to improve the overall diversity
of the urban forest.
   G.   The city shall provide education and outreach to private landowners on
the need for species and age diversity, proper selection and planting
practices, and how to select species for particular sites.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-5: TREE CARE:
Tree care on public lands within the city shall comply with requirements
identified in the urban forest management plan. It is recommended that tree
care on private property meet these same requirements. Tree pruning shall
follow industry standards as listed in the UFMP. Tree topping is prohibited.
Refer to the tree pruning standards section of the UFMP.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-6: TREE PROTECTION:
This section applies to any work or activity which may impact public property
trees.
   A.   Unless otherwise authorized by this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person to remove, injure or undertake any procedure which will cause death,
substantial damage, or create a hazard, to any public property tree without
first obtaining a tree permit from the city. In the case of tree management
practices, these practices shall comply with the requirements identified in the
urban forest management plan.
   B.   In the event of any site improvement which may impact public property
trees, a tree preservation plan is required, must be approved, and implemented
prior to the start of any work or delivery of any materials to the building
activity area. The approved tree preservation plan shall be available on the
site throughout the entire construction period until final approvals for all
site work shall be received in writing. (See urban forest management plan.)
   C.   In instances where the activity requires the use of heavy equipment and
where that activity may impact trees on public or private property, all
appropriate tree protection measures must be taken and identified in the tree
preservation plan. In addition, all tree protection measures shall be in
compliance with the urban forest management plan.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-7: LEGACY TREE PROTECTION:
   A.   Legacy Trees: The Princeton tree board shall determine the location,
selection and identification of any public tree(s) or private tree(s) which
qualify as “legacy trees”. The owner may contest the designation of a legacy
tree status on private property by formal application in writing to the
Princeton tree board. A tree may qualify as a legacy tree if it meets one or
more of the following specifics: species rarity, old age, association with an
historical event or person, abnormality, scenic enhancement or other
qualification as determined by the Princeton tree board.
   B.   If a tree has been awarded “legacy” status by the Princeton tree board
it will be unlawful to:
      1.   Affix any sign to the tree.
      2.   Construct anything in the tree.
      3.   Attach a fence.
      4.   Place anything in such a manner as to obstruct the growth of the
tree.
      5.   Affix any bolts, nails, screws or hardware of any nature unless it
is in the best interest or necessary to the well-being of the tree.
      6.   Remove or trim any legacy tree without prior written notification to
the Princeton tree board thirty (30) days prior to such action except when
emergency situations prevent proper notice. If a legacy tree must be removed or
trimmed during an emergency situation, notice of that emergency action must
still be filed with the Princeton tree board, within 72 hours of that action.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-8: TREE REMOVAL:
Tree removals are considered an impact to the entire city, whether on public or
private land. It is clearly documented that larger trees provide larger
benefits and as such, tree removal fees and fines are based on species and
diameter. (See fee and fine schedule of the code.) It is recognized that the
planting of smaller trees does not replace the value of larger trees that are
lost. It will take tens of years for that value to be replaced and for that
reason efforts should be made to preserve and protect trees where they are
growing.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to remove or cause damage to
any tree located on public property without first receiving a tree permit from
the city.
   B.   No live, dead or dying tree, or grouping of trees, equal to six inches
(6") or greater on public property may be removed without first obtaining a
permit from the city.
   C.   A nuisance tree is a tree that has already died, is in a state of
irrevocable decline, has the capacity to damage a person or thing or is an
invasive species. In the event of an emergency, and access to the city is not
possible, a nuisance tree may be removed without a permit, however, the
individual removing the tree shall take photographs and memorialize the
nuisance situation prior to removal and shall follow up with a request for a
tree permit from the city on the next business day.
   D.   Any tree removed from a parcel or transplanted offsite must be replaced
according to the regulations outlined in the urban forest management plan.
   E.   All stump removals shall require underground utility locations prior to
any action.
   F.   If a tree is removed or damaged which is not on the tree permit it must
be replaced or bonded as set forth in this section.
   G.   Removal of invasive woody plants such as buckthorn does not require a
permit and is encouraged. These invasive plants can quickly colonize an area
reducing the health and vitality of non-invasive plants. A list of invasive
woody plants is provided in the urban forest management plan.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-9: TREE REPLACEMENT;
   A.   It is required that tree replacement species come from the preferred
species list. The preferred species list is provided in the urban forest
management plan.
   B.   Any tree which is required to be removed or which has been damaged
shall require a bond to be posted until adequate replacements or remediation
can be made. The bond amount is identified in the fee section of the code.
Determination of extent of damage is at the sole discretion of the city.
   C.   Any tree species removed, six inch (6") DBH or six inch (6") group of
trees, which is not identified on the invasive species list, but is identified
on the preferred species list, is required for replacement by this section.
These trees shall be replaced based on the calculation provided on the
preferred species list with a species identified on that list. All replacements
shall be located appropriately as confirmed by a certified arborist and as
approved by the city.
   D.   When a tree removal is required as a result of any project, tree
replacement shall occur within the landscape season. In the event of weather
conditions or species-specific needs, which prohibit proper replacement of a
tree, the city may issue written notice of an extension of up to one hundred
eighty (180) days upon written request by the applicant. If an extension is
awarded to the applicant, the applicant shall notify the city when replacement
is complete. If, after the thirty (30) day or awarded one hundred eighty (180)
day extension, the tree is not replaced or the applicant has not notified the
city that installation is complete, all bonds shall be forfeited and the bond
money shall be placed in the tree bank. Tree removal requirements, associated
with a development project, can be found in the development section of the
code.
   E.   All tree replacement plantings shall require an underground utility
location prior to planting.
   F.   If the property where a removal has taken place does not have adequate
space to plant a replacement tree, then the applicant shall be required to pay
the city a dollar amount as identified in the fee section of the code. Funds
shall be placed in the tree bank for tree replacement or tree care in another
area of the city.
   G.   It shall be encouraged that any species identified on the invasive
species list be removed. There is no replacement requirement for these
removals.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-10: TREE PRESERVATION AND/OR REMOVAL PLAN FOR SIGNIFICANT REMOVALS:
An applicant seeking a permit for significant tree removals or tree removal
and/or planting related to construction and/or development shall comply with
all requirements of this section and the urban forest management plan.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-11: NUISANCE TREES:
A tree which is determined to be a nuisance tree is one which is dead or
declining and has the potential to damage other trees, people or structures.
These trees may be located on public or private property.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the property owner on any parcel to promptly
remove any trees which pose a risk.
   B.   Should the city notify the property owner, in writing, of a tree which
is a potential risk, the property owner shall have thirty (30) days to remove
the tree. If after thirty (30) days the property owner has not removed the tree
then the city shall take action to have the tree removed and shall provide to
the property owner a written invoice outlining all costs associated with the
removal, including but not limited to staff time, materials and oversight of
said removal. Should the property owner not reimburse the city within thirty
(30) days of issuance of a written invoice, the city shall place a lien on the
property until all expenses related to the removal and subsequent lien are
paid.
   C.   Infected, Infested Trees Due to a Pest or Pathogen Are Defined as a
Nuisance:
      1.   Any tree which is in a state of irreparable or untreatable decline
due to heavy infestation or disease is included in the definition of a
nuisance. Infested or infected trees, which are identified by federal or state
departments of agriculture to be in quarantine or can potentially infect or
infest other trees are defined as a nuisance. This would include, but not be
limited to, ash (fraxinus) trees infested with emerald ash borer which are not
being treated or whose treatment is ineffectual, or elm trees (ulmus) infected
with Dutch elm disease.
         a.   The city shall enforce state and federal regulations governing
quarantine zone boundaries, and regulated articles.
         b.   For the purposes of this section, “regulated articles” are hereby
defined as any insects at any living state of development, any quarantines
materials such as wood products including, but not limited to chips, limbs,
lumber, firewood or any other product or means of conveyance which may be
determined by federal or state departments of agriculture to pose a risk of
spread of any infestation or infection.
         c.   It shall be illegal to move out of established quarantine zone(s)
regulated articles unless those articles have met all requirements of the
local, federal and state regulatory agencies.
         d.   It shall be illegal for any person or entity to transfer from a
quarantine zone into a non-quarantine zone including the city any regulated
articles.
         e.   Any person or entity found to be in violation of any local, state
or federal regulations related to tree infestations or infections shall be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
         f.   All contractors working within and near any quarantine zone(s)
are required to comply with the quarantine regulations and supply records that
may be required for inspection to the city, county, state or federal agencies
upon request.
      2.   Trees in Decline or Dead Are Defined as a Nuisance:
         a.   Any tree or part of a tree which is dead which could potentially
fall on a person or structure is defined as a nuisance.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or land in the city
to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, any tree which is dead, or
declining to the state where it may create a potential risk for structures or
people. It shall be the duty of any such owner to promptly cause the removal of
any such tree.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-12: INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL:
   A.   Invasive plants cause ecological disruption to natural ecosystems. The
type of impact varies based on the species and the traits of that species. The
woody invasive species list is included in the urban forest management plan.
   B.   These species shall not be planted and should be removed and controlled
to reduce impacts to other vegetation.
      1.   Typical impacts include:
         a.   Chemical disturbance to the soil limiting development of other
species; and
         b.   Dense plant growth limiting light to soil surface resulting in
exposed soil allowing erosion.
      2.   Displacement of naturally occurring species resulting in a
monoculture of invasive species and aggressive tendencies.
      3.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The city shall have implementation
and outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential impacts and
remediation strategies, including a suggested planting list of alternative
species to assist property owners in dealing with the problem. This plan is
located in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   C.   Invasive Diseases And Insects:
      1.   Impacts to Trees: Invasive diseases and insects can create
significant stress to trees and in some instances kill trees. The city has
developed a list of invasive diseases and insects that pose significant threats
to trees from information identified by state and federal departments of
agriculture. This list is included in the urban forest management plan.
      2.   Invasive Species Management Plan: Management of invasive diseases
and insects is included in the urban forest management plan.
      3.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The city shall have an
implementation and outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential
impacts and remediation strategies to help property tree owners in dealing with
pests or pathogens. This plan is located in the urban forest management plan.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-13: TREE BOARD:
   A.   Establishment: The city hereby establishes a tree board which shall be
a recommending body to provide assistance, direction and expertise to the city
regarding the preservation, planting, management and protection of trees. The
tree board shall develop and recommend implementation of an urban forest
management plan for guidance on urban forestry issues.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   The tree board shall consist of five (5) to seven (7) members
subject to approval of the city board. It is recommended that individuals
within the community who have expertise in horticulture, forestry, planning, or
related fields be sought as members of the tree board. At least one (1) member
of the tree board shall be a certified arborist. The mayor shall designate one
(1) of the members to act as chairperson of the tree board, subject to the
approval of the city council. A member of the city streets and city electrical
departments shall be assigned to be ex officio members of said tree board
without the power to vote.
      2.   The appointed members shall serve for a period of three (3) years.
If a vacancy shall occur in the full membership, a replacement will be
appointed by the tree board to fill the remainder of the term. The tree board
members shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Procedures: The tree board shall meet and adopt, change or alter, rules
and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with city ordinances
and Illinois state laws. The tree board shall keep written records of its
proceedings which shall be open at all times to public inspection. The tree
board shall file an annual report to the city board setting forth its past year
activities and recommendations for future action by the city.
   D.   Powers and Duties: The tree board shall have the following powers and
duties subject to the approval of the city board:
      1.   To provide guidance on the preservation, care, management and
protection of trees within the city in accordance with urban forestry
management plan, regional and local best management practices.
      2.   To prepare and recommend to the city council from time-to-time
recommendations for specific improvements of the preservation, care, management
and protection of trees within the city.
      3.   To recommend rules and regulations to the city council for budget,
plans, projects and schedules regarding the preservation, care, management and
protection of trees within the city.
      4.   To review the city urban forest management plan and provide
recommendations for improvements to the city council.
      5.   To work collaboratively with city staff to support the city
ordinances and urban forest management plan.
      6.   Manage and administer all plans, programs, projects and tasks
delegated to it by the city Council as authorized and directed by the city
council.
      7.   The tree board shall hear any requests for appeal to this code and
make recommendations to be forwarded to the city council for a final decision.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-14: TREE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Applicant Submission: An applicant for a simple tree removal or
planting on public property shall fill out a tree removal or tree planting
request online, or in person, and the city arborist shall make an inspection
and render a determination.
   B.   Inventory: If a removal or planting is significant or in conjunction
with any type of development, then a full tree preservation plan and inventory
for the area to be impacted may be required. (See urban forestry management
plan for more information.) The city shall review the application. This review
shall include an inspection of the site and referral of the application for
recommendation to other appropriate administrative departments or agencies. The
city shall render a decision on the application within ten working days of its
receipt of a properly completed application.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-15: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful on public property for any person or commercial
enterprise receiving remuneration to engage in the business of planting,
cutting, trimming, pruning, removing, spraying or otherwise treating trees,
shrubs or other plants on city owned property without first having secured a
permit.
   B.   Issuance: The city shall issue a tree permit upon approval of an
application and payment of a required fee and bond.
   C.   Insurance Requirement: Before any commercial tree care permit shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
for bodily injury or death for each occurrence and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) property damage for each occurrence indemnifying
Princeton or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavor as herein described and shall abide by all of the provisions in this
chapter.
   D.   Time Limitation:
      1.   A tree permit shall expire and become null and void if work
authorized is not commenced within one year from the date of the permit or if
such work when commenced is suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of
one year.
      2.   If work has commenced and the tree permit becomes null and void or
expires because of a lack of progress or abandonment, a new tree permit for the
proposed tree removal, planting activity shall be obtained before proceeding
with further work.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-16: CASH BONDS:
   A.   If tree replacement is required by this section, then as a condition of
the tree permit, the applicant shall submit a cash bond as identified in the
fee section of this code. The bond shall be held for the purpose of assuring
that the replacement tree(s) are purchased and planted.
   B.   If it is determined that practices which violate any portion of the
city code have resulted in tree damage, then the city may require that a cash
bond, as determined in accordance with the fee section of this code, shall be
submitted at the time the violation occurs. The bond shall be held for the
purpose of assuring that all remedial actions to minimize tree damage are
taken, and/or for the purpose of assuring tree replacement should any damaged
tree die or show noticeable signs of decline as determined by a certified
arborist. If it is determined that residual damage may not be apparent, then
the bond may be held for a period of sixty (60) months or five (5) years. At
the end of which time, if the tree survives and is in good health, as
determined by a certified arborist the bond shall be returned. If the tree does
not survive, and was not further impacted by an act of God, or is in poor
health then replacement shall be required as identified above and according to
the fee section of the code.
   C.   If the bond is posted for a tree and the property owner wishes to
transfer the property, then the bond shall be required to be paid before
transfer of the property or shall be refunded to the original property owner
once the bond requirements have been met.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-17: FINAL INSPECTION:
Final approval shall be issued when all relocation, replacement or remediation
of trees is completed and a final inspection has been conducted by the city.
Should the city determine that the season is inappropriate for planting then
relocation or replacement shall be deferred until the next planting season. All
bonds and fees will remain in the custody of the city until final inspection
and approval has been provided in writing.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-18: COMPLIANCE:
The city shall retain jurisdiction to ensure compliance with this section and
shall have the right to issue a stop work order for noncompliance. No stop work
order issued pursuant to this section shall be removed by the city unless the
applicant has paid a reinspection fee in accordance with the fee schedule of
this code.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-19: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
assessed at a cost as prescribed in the fee section of the code. Each tree cut
down, destroyed, damaged, removed or moved shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition to these penalties, if a tree is removed in violation of this
section, all replacement requirements of this chapter shall be applied.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-20: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Right of Entry of City Officers: To carry out the purposes
of this section and to implement its enforcement, the city is authorized and
empowered, upon twenty-four (24) hours notice, to enter upon any lot or parcel
of land in the city at all reasonable hours to inspect any tree or wood and to
remove specimens from any such tree to determine their condition. It shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with a city officer carrying out the
duties authorized in this section.
   B.   Duty of Property Owner to Abate Nuisance or Potential Risk: If it is
determined that there exists a public nuisance or risk as declared in this
section, the city shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner of the lot
or parcel of land on which such nuisance or risk is located, a written notice
identifying the nuisance or risk and requiring the owner to comply with the
provisions of this section. If the person upon whom such notice is served
fails, neglects or refuses to remove and dispose of the tree or dead wood
within thirty days after service of such notice, the city may proceed to remove
and dispose of such tree or dead wood and the costs shall be paid by the owner
to the city.
   C.   Service of Notice to Property Owner: Service of notice provided for in
this section shall be affected by personal service or by certified mail
addressed to the occupant or to the person to whom, and at the address, to
which the tax bill was sent for the general taxes for the last preceding year
on the lot or parcel on which the nuisance is located.
   D.   City Abatement and Assessment of Costs: Any costs incurred by the city
in the abatement of a public nuisance or hazard as declared in this section
shall be assessed against the record owner of the land involved and the city
shall place a lien upon such property for those costs in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-21: EXCEPTIONS:
If because of emergency weather or other casualty conditions a tree is
endangering health, safety or property and requires immediate removal, verbal
authorization may be given by the city for the tree removal without obtaining a
written permit. Such verbal authorization shall later be confirmed in writing
by the city.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-22: APPEALS FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the city in the enforcement of
any terms or provisions of this section may, within ten working days after the
date of the decision, appeal to the tree board by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city clerk. The notice of appeal shall set forth concisely the
decision and the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The tree board may make a
recommendation to the city board to affirm, modify, or reverse the decision.
The decision of the city board shall be final and no petition for rehearing or
reconsideration shall be available. Reasonable notice of the hearing by the
tree board shall be provided by the city clerk to all affected parties.
   B.   No variances in the strict application of the provisions of this
section shall be recommended for approval by the board unless it finds:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions, fully described
in the written notice of appeal which are peculiar to the property (properties)
and do not apply generally to properties within the city, and that said
circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of the code
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the subject property
(properties).
      2.   That for reasons fully set forth in the written notice of appeal,
the granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of the
property (properties) and that the variance, as recommended for approval by the
Board, is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose.
      3.   That the result of granting of the variance will be in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of standards set forth within this code and in
harmony with this section, and will not be injurious to adjacent property or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
7-2A-23: CIVIL REMEDIES:
In addition to any other remedies provided by this section the city shall have
the following judicial remedies available for violations of this section or any
permit condition promulgated under this section.
   A.   The city may institute a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to establish liability and to recover damages for any injury
caused by the removal or damage of trees in contravention of the terms of this
section.
   B.   The city may institute a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek injunctive relief to enforce compliance with this section
to enjoin any violation, and to seek injunctive relief to prevent irreparable
injury to the trees or properties encompassed by the terms of this section.
(Ord. O-22-012, 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 3: CITY PARKS
Section
7-3-1: Short Title
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Park Property
7-3-4: Water Pollution; Deposit Of Rubbish And Trash
7-3-5: Traffic Regulations
7-3-6: Recreational Activities
7-3-7: Fires; Materials Causing Fires
7-3-8: Fireworks And Explosives
7-3-9: Animal Control
7-3-10: Sales Of Merchandise; Advertising; Notices
7-3-11: Additional Offenses
7-3-12: Permit Requirements For Group Activities
7-3-13: Park Operating Policy
7-3-14: Enforcement
7-3-15: Penalty
7-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF PRINCETON ORDINANCE
REGULATING CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PARKS.
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
DIRECTOR: A person or board immediately in charge of any park area and its
activities and to whom all park attendants of such area are responsible.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the city owned or used by the city including Darius Miller Park,
Veterans Park and City-County Park.
VEHICLE: Any mode of transporting people or goods, whether motor powered,
animal drawn, or self- propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of
any size, kind or description or any camper or snowmobile. Baby strollers and
city vehicles used to service the parks are not included in the definition of
“vehicle”.
7-3-3: PARK PROPERTY:
   A.   Structures, Facilities, Utilities:
      1.   No person in a park shall willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with, displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railings, pavings or paving materials, water lines or other public
utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards,
whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary
markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or
appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
      2.   No person in a park shall climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon
monuments, vases, fountains, railings or fences or upon any other property not
designated or customarily used for such purposes.
      3.   All persons who use the restroom or washroom facilities shall
maintain the restrooms and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition.
      4.   No person shall dig or remove any beach sand, whether submerged or
not, or any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants, down timber or other
wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting, or
other means or agency from any park.
      5.   No person shall construct or erect any building or structure of
whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string
any public service utility into, upon, or across such lands in any park, except
on a special written permit issued under this chapter.
   B.   Vegetation:
      1.   No person in a park shall damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove
any tree or plant or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree
or plant; nor shall any person attach any rope, wire, or other contrivance to
any tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas
or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any
area.
      2.   No person in a park shall tie or hitch a horse or other animal to
any tree or plant.
   C.   Wildlife:
      1.   No person in a park shall hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap,
chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; nor shall
he or she remove or have in his or her possession the young of any wild animal,
or the eggs, nest, or young of any reptile or bird; nor shall he or she
collect, remove, have in his or her possession, give away, sell or offer to
sell, or buy or offer to buy, or accept as a gift any specimen, alive or dead,
of any of the group of tree snails. As an exception to this subsection C1,
snakes known to be deadly poisonous, such as rattlesnakes, moccasins, coral
snakes, or other deadly reptiles, may be killed on sight.
      2.   No person in a park shall give or offer, or attempt to give, to any
animal or bird any tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances.
7-3-4: WATER POLLUTION; DEPOSIT OF RUBBISH AND TRASH:
   A.   No person in a park shall throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause
to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other
body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer,
or drain flowing into such waters any substance, matter or thing, liquid or
solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such waters.
   B.   No person in a park shall have brought in or shall dump, deposit or
leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish,
waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed
in any waters in or contiguous to any park or left anywhere on the grounds
thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are
provided. Where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
7-3-5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   State Laws Apply: No person in a park shall fail to comply with all
applicable provisions of the state motor vehicle traffic laws in regard to
equipment and the operation of vehicles, together with such regulations as are
contained in this code and other ordinances.
   B.   Obedience To Officials And Signs:
      1.   No person in a park shall fail to obey all traffic officers and park
employees, such persons being hereby authorized and instructed to direct
traffic whenever and wherever needed in the parks and on the highways, streets
or roads immediately adjacent thereto in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and such supplementary regulations as may be issued subsequently by the
city.
      2.   All persons shall observe and obey all traffic signs indicating
speed, direction, caution, stopping, or parking and all other signs posted for
proper control and to safeguard life and property.
   C.   Speed Limit: No person in a park shall ride or drive a vehicle at a
rate of speed exceeding ten (10) miles an hour, except upon such roads as the
city may designate, by posted signs, for speedier travel.
   D.   Vehicles Restricted To Roadways And Parking Areas: No person in a park
shall drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads, parking areas,
or such other areas as may be specifically designated as parking areas by the
city.
   E.   Parking:
      1.   No person in a park shall park a vehicle anywhere other than an
established or designated parking area. Such use shall be in accordance with
posted directions or with the instructions of any attendant who may be present.
      2.   No person shall park on the road or driveway of a park at any time.
      3.   No person shall leave any vehicle anywhere in the park with one or
more wheels chained, or with the motor set in gear and the doors locked, or in
any manner fixed or arranged so that such vehicle cannot readily be moved by
hand.
      4.   No person shall leave a vehicle standing or parked in a park at
night without lights clearly visible for at least two hundred feet (200') from
both the front and rear on any driveway or road area, except for legally
established parking areas.
      5.   No person shall fail to immediately notify a park attendant of an
emergency or the police department in the nature of a breakdown requiring the
assistance of a tow truck, mechanic or other person.
      6.   No person shall double park any vehicle on any road or parkway,
unless directed by a park official.
   F.   Muffler Required: No person in a park shall fail to use a muffler
adequate to deaden the sound of the engine in a motor vehicle.
   G.   Bicycles:
      1.   A bicycle may only be used on a paved vehicular road or path
designated for that purpose. A bicyclist may push a bicycle by hand over any
grassy area, wooded trail, or any paved area reserved for pedestrian use.
      2.   All bicyclists shall abide by the same traffic regulations as
motorized vehicles and shall operate on the right hand side of the road as
conditions permit. Bicycles shall be kept in a single file line when two (2) or
more are operating as a group. Bicyclists shall at all times operate their
machines with reasonable regard to the safety of others.
      3.   Bicycles shall be placed in a bicycle rack when such is provided and
there is a space available.
      4.   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a
lamp and reflector.
   H.   Snowmobiles: Snowmobiles are prohibited on all park property.
7-3-6: RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Bathing; Swimming:
      1.   No person shall swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or
adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided
therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are set forth in this
chapter or as may be hereafter adopted; nor shall any person frequent any
waters or places customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or bathing,
or congregate thereat, when such activity is prohibited by the director upon a
finding that such use of the water would be dangerous or otherwise inadvisable.
      2.   All persons shall abide by the times of use that are designated by
the city for the purpose of swimming or bathing, or congregation.
      3.   In any beach or bathing area no person shall erect, maintain, use or
occupy any tent, shelter or structure of any kind unless there shall be an
unobstructed view into such tent, shelter or structure from at least two (2)
sides; nor shall any guy wire, rope, extension, exterior brace or support be
connected or fastened from any such structure to any other structure, stake,
rock or other object outside thereof.
      4.   No person in a park shall dress or undress on any beach or in any
vehicle, restroom or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures
as may be provided for that purpose.
   B.   Boating:
      1.   No person shall bring into or operate any boat, raft or other
watercraft, whether motor powered or not, upon any waters, except at places
designated for boating by the city. Such activity shall be in accordance with
applicable city regulations.
      2.   No person shall use the public docks for docking or other purpose
without first making arrangements for such accommodation with the city. The
city shall assign space and collect reasonable rental charges in conformity
with established regulations and rates.
      3.   No person shall navigate, direct or handle any boat in such a manner
as to unjustifiably or unnecessarily annoy, frighten or endanger the occupants
of any other boat.
      4.   No person shall launch, dock or operate any boat of any kind on any
waters after the closing of the park and before the opening of the park. Nor
shall any person be on, or remain on or in, any boat after the park is closed.
   C.   Fishing:
      1.   No person shall engage in commercial fishing or the buying or
selling of fish caught in any waters located in a park.
      2.   No person shall fish in any waters, whether by the use by hook and
line, net, trap, or other device, except in waters designated by the city for
that use and under such regulations and restrictions as have been or may be
prescribed by the city.
   D.   Hunting; Weapons:
      1.   No person shall hunt, trap or pursue wildlife at any time in any
park.
      2.   No person shall use, carry, or possess firearms of any description,
air rifles, spring guns, bow and arrows, slings or any other forms of weapons
that are used to harm wildlife, or are dangerous to human safety, or any
instrument that can fire blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping device.
      3.   No person shall shoot into a park from outside of park boundaries.
The city’s police department and the county sheriff’s department are exempt
from this prohibition in the City-County Park.
   E.   Picnic Areas:
      1.   No person shall picnic or lunch in places other than those
designated for that purpose. City employees working in the park shall have the
authority to regulate the activities in such areas when necessary to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of
all. Visitors shall comply with any directions given by a city employee of the
police department to achieve this end.
      2.   That use of the individual firepits, together with tables and
benches, follows generally the rule of “first come, first serve”, except in the
case of the shelters and cabins located in the City-County Park which may be
reserved by special permit issued by the city or county.
      3.   No person shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or any of the
buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such area and facilities
for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded unless use is pursuant
to a permit issued by the city or county, as specified in subsection E2 of this
section.
      4.   No person shall leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where
provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   F.   Camping: No person shall camp in or set up tents, shacks or any other
temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person
leave any moveable structure or special vehicle that could be used for such
purpose in a park after closing hours. Special vehicle includes but is not
limited to a house trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon or the like. Special
permits may be issued upon applications to the city. No campers or trailers
shall be allowed in a park at any time.
   G.   Games: No person shall take part in or abet the playing of any games
involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows
or javelins, except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The
playing of rough or comparatively dangerous games such as football, baseball
and quoits is prohibited, except on the fields and courts or areas provided
therefor.
7-3-7: FIRES; MATERIALS CAUSING FIRES:
   A.   No person shall build or attempt to build a fire, except in such areas
and under such regulations as may be designated by the city.
   B.   No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other flammable materia, within
any park area or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
7-3-8: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES:
The setting off or causing to explode, discharging or burning of any
firecracker, torpedo, rocket or other fireworks or explosives of flammable
material is strictly prohibited as is the discharge of them or the throwing of
them into any such area from the land or highway adjacent thereto. This
prohibition includes any substance, compound, mixture or article that, in
conjunction with any other substance or compound, would be dangerous from any
of the foregoing standpoints.
Cross-reference:
   See title 5, chapter 6 of this code for unmanned aircraft (drones)
regulations
 7-3-9: ANIMAL CONTROL:
   A.   Domestic Animals:
      1.   No person shall allow a dog to run at large in any park.
      2.   Any person who possesses a dog in a park shall pick up after the dog
defecates.
   B.   Horseback Riding: Where permitted, horses shall be thoroughly broken,
properly restrained, and ridden with due care and shall not be allowed to graze
or go unattended, nor shall they be hitched to any rock, tree or shrub. Any
person who rides a horse in permitted areas shall be responsible for cleaning
up after said horse defecates
7-3-10: SALES OF MERCHANDISE; ADVERTISING; NOTICES:
   A.   No person shall offer for sale any merchandise or service, nor shall he
or she place any stand, cart, or vehicle for the transportation, advertisement,
sale or display of any such merchandise or service in any park.
   B.   No person in a park shall announce, advertise, or call the public’s
attention in any way to any article or service for sale or hire.
   C.   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement, or inscription to any city owned property. Nor shall any person
erect or cause to be erected any sign on any public lands or highways or roads
adjacent to a park.
7-3-11: ADDITIONAL OFFENSES:
   A.   Interference With Officers and Employees: No person shall interfere
with or in any manner hinder any officer, employee or agent of the city while
such officer, employee, or agent is engaged in constructing, repairing or
caring for any portion of any park.
   B.   Entering Closed Areas: No person shall enter an area posted as “closed
to the public”, nor shall any person use or encourage another to use any area
in violation of posted notices.
   C.   Going Onto Ice: No person in a park shall go onto the ice on any of the
waters.
   D.   Begging; Soliciting Contributions: No person shall solicit donations or
contributions for any purpose, whether public or private.
   E.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Consumption: No person shall consume alcoholic beverages or possess
open alcohol in any park, except at certain specifically areas or events
approved by the city and in compliance with title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
      2.   Sales: No person shall sell alcoholic beverages in any park, except
at specifically designated events that are approved by the city.
   F.   Gambling: No person shall gamble or participate in any game of chance
that is unlawful pursuant to state law.
   G.   Loitering; Disorderly Conduct:
      1.   No person shall make use of the park as a place to sleep, whether in
cars, buildings, seats, benches or any area within the park after the park
closes. No person shall swing, occupy or use any hammock in any area except
where designated for such purpose by the city.
      2.   No person in a park shall lounge on the seats, benches or other
areas, or engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language, or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to
breach public peace.
7-3-12: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUP ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be obtained from the city before
participating in group activities in a park.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person seeking issuance of a permit under
this section shall file an application with the city. The application shall
state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if any.
      3.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      4.   Proof of insurance if applicable and required by the city.
      5.   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired.
      6.   An estimate of the anticipated attendance.
      7.   Any other information which the city shall find reasonably necessary
to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: The city shall issue a permit hereunder when it
finds that:
      1.   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public’s enjoyment of the park.
      2.   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation.
      3.   The proposed activity or use is not reasonably anticipated to incite
violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      4.   The proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary or
burdensome expense on the police department.
      5.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for another use at the
day and hour required in the application.
   D.   Denial Of Permit: Within three (3) days after receipt of an
application, the city shall notify an applicant in writing of the reasons for
denying a permit. The denial of a permit may be appealed in writing within
three (3) days to the city manager, who shall consider the application under
the standards set forth in subsection C of this section, and sustain or
overrule the city’s decision within three (3) days. The decision of the city
manager shall be final.
   E.   Exhibit Permit: Upon request of any person authorized by the city, a
person shall produce and exhibit any city permit he or she claims to have.
Failure to produce such permit upon request may result in the person’s removal
from the park and the forfeiture of any reserved space.
   F.   Responsibility Of Permittee:
      1.   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable city ordinances.
      2.   The person to whom a permit is issued shall be liable for any loss,
damage or injury sustained by any person by reason of the negligence of the
person to whom such permit shall have been issued. Such person shall also be
liable for damage to any park property and the removal of all garbage.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit: The city, including the police department, shall
have the authority to revoke a permit upon a finding of violation of any rule
or ordinance or upon good cause shown.
   H.   Interference With Permittees Prohibited: No person shall disturb or
interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying any area or
participating in any activity under the authority of a permit.
7-3-13: PARK OPERATING POLICY:
   A.   Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall be open to
the public on designated days. The days open and the hours of operation for
each individual park shall be posted at the park’s entrance and on the city’s
website.
   B.   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public by
the city at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise), and either entirely or
merely to certain uses, as the city finds reasonably necessary.
   C.   The finding of lost articles by the city shall be reported to the city
manager or police department who shall make every reasonable effort to locate
the owners. The city shall make a reasonable effort to find articles reported
as lost. Found articles will be maintained and available to be claimed at the
city hall for thirty (30) days after they have been turned in.
7-3-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city employees, and the city police department and county sheriff’s
department shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The city employees, city police officers and county sheriff’s deputies
shall have the authority to eject any person from the park acting in violation
of this chapter.
   C.   Any city police officer or other authorized city employee shall have
the authority to seize and confiscate any property in the park, or used in
violation of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 9-59)
7-3-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such under this section.
(1989 Code § 9-58)
CHAPTER 4: CITY CEMETERIES
Section
7-4-1: Names Of Cemeteries; Interpretation
7-4-2: Maps And Plats Of Cemeteries
7-4-3: Funds
7-4-4: Purchase Of Cemetery Lots
7-4-5: Conveyance Of Lots
7-4-6: Reserved Lots
7-4-7: Care Of Lots
7-4-8: Interments
7-4-9: Disinterments And Reinterments
7-4-10: Mausoleums, Monuments, Headstones And Markers
7-4-10-1: Installation Requirements
7-4-11: General Rules
7-4-12: Disposition Of Proceeds
7-4-13: Penalty
7-4-1: NAMES OF CEMETERIES; INTERPRETATION:
The rules and regulations contained and prescribed in this chapter shall govern
and control the operation, management and use of the Oakland Cemetery and the
Elm Lawn Cemetery which are owned by the city. Wherever the term “cemeteries”
or “any cemetery” is used in this chapter, it means the Oakland Cemetery and
the Elm Lawn Cemetery.
7-4-2: MAPS AND PLATS OF CEMETERIES:
The cemeteries shall be kept sufficiently enclosed, and shall be laid out in
blocks and lots and streets, lanes, alleys and walks, under the direction of
and in a manner to be approved by the cemetery manager, and maps or plats with
the full minutes of the surveys shall be kept in the offices of the cemeteries,
such blocks and lots to be numbered.
7-4-3: FUNDS:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund:
      1.   Funds To City Clerk: It shall be the duty of the cemetery manager to
pay all monies collected and belonging to the cemeteries fund to the director
of finance, and to take the director’s receipt for the same. The manager shall
make a report to the city council whenever required to do so by the council.
7-4-4: PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS:
   A.   Sale Price:
      1.   All lots in the cemeteries shall be sold at private sale by the
cemetery manager. Lots shall be sold at the prices provided in the city fee
schedule which may be amended from time to time by the city council.
      2.   Money from the sale of lots shall be placed in the city’s general
fund.
   B.   Payment Procedure: In the selling of the lots in the cemeteries, the
manager shall require the purchaser to pay the appraised value thereof in cash
at the time of the purchase, unless the purchaser shall give to the manager his
or her note for the amount of such purchase price, payable to the city, due on
or before six (6) months from the date thereof, with interest from that date at
seven percent (7%) per year. Such note shall be secured satisfactorily to the
manager. No lot in the cemeteries shall be considered sold until all the
purchase money thereof shall have been actually paid to the manager of the
cemeteries. If any corpse or the remains of a human body shall be interred upon
any lot in the cemeteries before all the purchase money for such lot shall have
been or shall be actually paid to the manager, then the manager shall, at the
expiration of six (6) months from the time such lot was purchased or bargained
for, disinter such corpse or remains and reinter such in the Potter’s Field as
specified in section
7-4-6 of this chapter. No foundation for a monument, marker or other structure
shall be placed on a lot until full payment is made.
   C.   Certificate Of Purchase:
      1.   Any person purchasing of any lot from the city shall be entitled to
a certificate of purchase signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk, under
the corporate seal of the city, and countersigned by the manager, which shall
vest the ownership of the lot to the purchaser, subject to the rules,
regulations, ordinances and government of the city council. It shall be the
duty of the city clerk to furnish the manager, whenever requested to do so,
with blank certificates, signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk,
under the corporate seal of the city, and when the manager shall sell and
receive the purchase price in full, he or she shall fill in such certificate of
purchase and countersign the same and record it before delivering it to the
purchaser. No certificate shall be valid unless thus signed, attested,
countersigned and recorded. It shall be the duty of the manager to keep a
record in which he or she shall record all such certificates of purchase of
lots.
      2.   Lots sold with perpetual care attached to the purchase price shall
contain, in addition to the above, the following words printed in the
certificate of purchase:
City of Princeton covenants and agrees to perpetually care for and keep up said
space, by keeping the grass thereon mowed, and shrubbery planted thereon
properly cared for, and the graves thereon properly filled or sodded and level
with the surface of the ground, and any other improvements placed thereon by
the city in proper repair, at the expense of the city.
7-4-5: CONVEYANCE OF LOTS:
   A.   All subsequent conveyances from one person to another of any lot or
part of a lot may be made in a form, and attested by the city clerk, under the
corporate seal of the city and countersigned by the manager.
   B.   On the margin of the conveyance shall be written or printed:
This instrument must be countersigned and recorded by the cemetery manager
within thirty (30) days from its date, and on the failure of the purchaser to
have it so countersigned and recorded, said certificate or instrument shall
become void.
7-4-6: RESERVED LOTS:
   A.   Grave spaces in block no. 11-1/2 (commonly referred to as Potter’s
Field) in the Oakland Cemetery shall be forever held exempt from sale and shall
be reserved for the burial of the poor and transient persons whose deaths shall
occur within the limits of the city.
   B.   Lot nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in block no. 48 in the Oakland Cemetery
shall be forever held exempt from sale and shall be reserved for the burial of
soldiers who have served in the army of the United States or in the army, navy
or militia of the state and shall be known as the “soldiers and sailors lot”.
7-4-7: CARE OF LOTS:
All lots in the cemeteries not cared for by the city shall be, by the owner or
owners thereof, kept in as good condition at all times as are the lots cared
for by the city. Any lot not so kept by the owner or owners shall be cared for
by the city, and for so caring for the same, there shall be assessed against
such lot each year a sum of money specified by the manager. The care given to
such lot by the city shall consist of mowing or burning fallen leaves each
spring and fall, filling and seeding of sunken graves, and any and all other
work that may be deemed necessary to keep the lots in as good condition as the
lots receiving perpetual or annual care. Each lot so cared for (except for
filling and seeding graves) shall be assessed at a rate per one hundred (100)
square feet of surface area thereof per year and, in addition thereto, a charge
for filling and seeding each sunken grave. Hereafter, no grave shall be dug on
any lot, and no foundation constructed for monuments or markers, until all
assessments against such lot are fully paid.
7-4-8: INTERMENTS:
   A.   Charges: The charges for burials in both Oakland Cemetery and Elm Lawn
Cemetery shall be as follows. There shall be no burials on holidays.
 
Weekday adult per full-grave burial $575.00
Weekday infant or any cremation     $175.00
Weekend adult per full-grave burial $1,000.00
Weekend infant pr any cremation     $500.00
 
Overtime hourly labor rates of time and one-half shall be additionally charged
to any burial requests received after eleven o’clock (11:00) a.m. on a Friday
for a burial scheduled on the following Monday.
   B.   Digging Graves:
      1.   All graves shall be dug by persons employed by the city, and it
shall be the duty of the manager to dig and prepare or cause to be dug and
prepared, any grave upon the order of any lot owner, upon the payment by such
lot owner in advance to the city of the amount provided in the city cemetery
fee schedule. Whenever the weather is such that the manager and employees are
unable to prepare a grave, or when the ground is in a condition that a grave
cannot be prepared, the body may be placed in the vault until such time as the
condition will permit a grave to be prepared. The manager and other employees
shall wait for necessarily delayed funerals, provided notice is given.
Otherwise, it shall be assumed that the plans have changed, and the manager and
employees will be dismissed at the usual time. When instructions for opening a
grave are indefinite or for any reason the grave cannot be prepared in the
location specified, the manager will order the grave prepared in the location
that seems best under the circumstances. Such action is necessary to avoid the
delaying of funerals.
      2.   The manager shall refuse to permit the burial or other disposal of a
dead human body, or part thereof, in the cemeteries, unless the funeral
director, or other persons present with the body, or part thereof, shall secure
a legal burial permit issued by the local registrar of the district in which
the death occurred. The manager shall not honor a burial permit unless it is
issued by an Illinois local registrar. If the death occurred outside of
Illinois, the funeral director shall obtain a permit from the local registrar
of the district.
   C.   Cremations:
      1.   Urns shall be limited to a maximum size of twenty four inches (24")
long by twenty inches (20") wide if buried in a cremation space. Urns may be
larger if for a sole burial on a lot.
      2.   The number of cremation burials per lot is limited to two (2)
burials except in the case of a grave space already containing a full size
vault, in which case, no further burials shall be allowed in that space.
   D.   Times For Services: Funeral services shall be set no later than three
o’clock (3:00) p.m. from the funeral home or place of worship, so that ample
time is allowed for the cemetery to complete its work before five o’clock (5:
00) p.m. or darkness, whichever is earlier, unless prior approval of the
cemetery manager has been obtained. The cemetery must have an eight (8) hour
working notice for each funeral to be held.
   E.   Record Of Burials: The cemetery manager shall keep a record wherein he
or she shall enter the name, place of death (city/state), the year, month and
day of death and burial, and the age at death. Such record shall also show the
cemetery, lot and block number where such persons is buried.
(Ord. O-22-001, 1-17-2022)
7-4-9: DISINTERMENTS AND REINTERMENTS:
   A.   No disinterments shall be permitted in the cemeteries without the
necessary permits and the consent of the manager, and under no conditions shall
a disinterment be made by anyone other than cemetery employees or as required
under law.
   B.   Reinterment of a human body shall be accompanied by the necessary
permit and shall be made by cemetery employees and under the direction of the
manager.
   C.   The interment of more than one body in any one lot shall be prohibited
except side by side.
   D.   No interment other than that of a human body or part thereof shall be
permitted in the cemeteries.
7-4-10: MAUSOLEUMS, MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES AND MARKERS:
7-4-10-1: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definition: A “monument” shall be defined, for the purposes of this
section, as any memorial structure, other than a marker, erected on a lot,
except a vault or mausoleum.
   B.   Foundations:
      1.   All mausoleums, monuments, headstones and markers erected or placed
in the cemeteries shall be placed upon a solid concrete foundation. All
concrete foundations shall be constructed by the manager and his or her
employees and made to comply with the requirements of this section, or shall be
constructed as directed by the manager by the persons desiring to place the
same upon such lots.
      2.   a.   All foundations for mausoleums and monuments hereafter
constructed shall be not less than five feet (5') in depth at both the top and
the bottom, and for headstones and markers, shall be not less than three feet
(3') in depth, wherever possible. The dimensions of all foundations shall be
four inches (4") greater in length and breadth than the stone or base to be
placed thereon, and shall be finished off level with the surface of the ground
on both sides and the ends.
         b.   Length; Width; Ground Level: All foundations shall be eight
inches (8") greater in length and width than the stone to be set thereon, and
this margin shall be carried to the full depth of the foundation. The
foundation shall be at ground level on both sides and ends.
      3.   The material to be used in the construction of foundations shall be
of concrete. Concrete shall be made of good clean gravel, or other material
equal in quality, and good cement, mixed in proportions of six (6) parts gravel
to not less than one part cement.
      4.   No foundation shall be constructed on any lot until the lot is fully
paid for.
   C.   Dimensions:
      1.   Monuments:
         a.   The minimum requirements for die (the primary body portion of a
monument) and base (the lower part of a multi-sectioned monument) of a monument
to be erected in the cemeteries shall be as follows:
 
Die:  36" x 8" x 24"
Base: 48" x 14" x 8"
 
         b.   No monument shall be higher than six feet six inches (6'6") nor
longer than six feet six inches (6'6"). Exceptions in certain localities are
possible but shall be determined after first checking with the manager.
      2.   Markers, Etc.: No marker shall be higher than twelve inches (12"),
shall not exceed thirty inches (30") in length and shall not be over fifteen
inches (15"). All other stones or structures greater in dimensions than the
above will be construed as monuments.
   D.   Charge For Setting Monuments. The charge for setting monuments in the
cemeteries is as provided in the city fee schedule as established by the city
council. Such charge shall be payable by the monument dealer at the time the
monument is delivered to be set.
   E.   Number Of Monuments Per Lot: No more than one monument shall be allowed
on any lot.
   F.   Location of Monuments: All monuments shall be placed as near to the
center of the lot as possible, unless permission is given by the manager to
place them otherwise. No monuments shall be allowed on lots or blocks where
single graves are sold.
   G.   Location of Markers: All markers must be placed at the end of the grave
which is the greatest distance from the center of the lot, unless permission by
the cemetery manager is given to place the markers in a different position.
   H.   Construction of Foundation: No foundation shall be constructed:
      1.   Until the manager has given his or her approval of the stone to be
placed thereon;
      2.   Without first giving notice to the manager as to the time the work
shall be done; and
      3.   Except during the cemetery working hours so that inspection may be
made as the work is being done. Certain exceptions may be arranged after
consultation with the manager.
   I.   Dimensions Of Markers: No marker shall be over thirty inches (30") in
length, twelve inches (12") in width, nor eight inches (8") in height. The
pitch shall not be over two inches (2"). Duplications shall be excepted. The
markers to be erected where single graves are sold shall not be over twenty
four inches (24") in length, twelve inches (12") in width, and eight inches
(8") at the highest point. The pitch shall not be over two inches (2").
   J.   Debts To Cemeteries: No foundation shall be constructed on any lot, or
at any single grave, if there is any amount of money due the cemetery. Dealers
shall first check at the office of the manager before starting work.
   K.   Corner Posts: No corner posts of any kind shall be allowed.
   L.   Preneed Stones: No preneed stones shall be set unless permission is
first obtained from the manager.
   M.   Hickey Markers: No hickey markers shall be less than six inches (6") in
height or over eight inches (8") in height. Government markers and their
duplications are excepted.
   N.   Width For Die: All monuments shall have a minimum of eight inches (8")
of width for the die.
   O.   Slants: There shall be no slants on the bases.
   P.   Marble: There shall be no marble allowed, except in duplications.
   Q.   Duplicates: There shall be no duplicating of design of a monument,
except when placed at alternating block intervals.
   R.   Removal Of Stones: The manager shall be notified when any stone is to
be removed and taken away.
   S.   Work During Funerals: All work by the city shall cease when a funeral
in progress is within sight or hearing of such work.
   T.   Temporary Memorials: No temporary memorial, i.e., cement, artificial
stone, wood, tin, iron, or composition, shall be allowed.
   U.   Lines: Lines shall be used at all times when setting stones.
   V.   Removal Of Foreign Material And Forms: All foreign material shall be
removed from and around the lot when the work is completed; and later, when the
forms are removed, the dirt shall be filled in around the foundations of all
markers.
   W.   Dirt Leveled: All dirt shall be leveled after dumping so that the
mowers may pass over the graves.
   X.   Trucks; Planking: No trucks shall be allowed on the lots, and planking
shall be used at all times when unloading monuments.
   Y.   Face Of Markers: All markers shall face the nearest roadway.
   Z.   Shrubs: No shrubs shall be removed or planted without first obtaining
permission from the manager.
   AA.   Minimum Size Of Markers: No marker shall be smaller than sixteen
inches (16") in length nor eight inches (8") in width.
   BB.   Blank Markers: No blank markers shall be erected in the cemeteries at
any time.
   CC.   Die Polished Or Waxed: Both sides of the die shall be polished or
waxed.
   DD.   Double Markers: The maximum size for double markers shall be thirty
six inches by twelve inches by eight inches (36"x12"x8"). This size marker
shall be allowed to mark double lots (two (2) grave spaces) only. It shall be
placed at the center of the two (2) spaces.
   EE.   Cremation Markers: All cremation markers shall be at ground level and
shall be made of bronze or granite. The maximum size for a double marker shall
be thirty six inches by twelve inches (36"x12"), and it shall be centered
between the two (2) spaces. The maximum size for a single marker shall be
twenty four inches by twelve inches (24"x12").
   FF.   Markers In Potter’s Field: No markers shall be placed on any graves
located in Potter’s Field until such time as an amount equal to forty three
percent (43%) of the cost of a single grave space has been paid to the cemetery
for the perpetual care required by the placement of said monument.
   GG.   Compliance With Provisions: The cemetery manager is hereby directed to
refuse permission to erect any monuments, markers or headstones which do not
comply with this section.
7-4-11: GENERAL RULES:
The following rules shall be observed by owners of lots and other visitors in
the cemeteries:
   A.   Right Of Access; Exceptions:
      1.   Lot owners and other visitors shall have access to the cemeteries
with vehicles, subject to this chapter. Such access shall be between sunrise
and sunset unless otherwise determined by the manager to be necessary and in
accordance with this chapter.
      2.   The manager is authorized to keep the gates locked to all except
funeral processions when the roads are in a soft, unstable condition, or at
other times when deemed necessary by the manager.
   B.   Vehicle Use:
      1.   Licensed Vehicles Only: Motor vehicles shall be admitted to the
cemeteries only if licensed under the Illinois vehicle code.
      2.   Speed Limit: No vehicles admitted to the cemeteries shall be ridden
or driven faster than ten (10) miles per hour.
      3.   Right Of Way: All vehicles and machinery used in the cemeteries
under the direction of the manager shall have the right of way at all times.
      4.   Drive On Roadways Only: No vehicle shall be driven anywhere except
on the streets or avenues of the cemeteries. Vehicles used in the maintenance
of the cemeteries or allowed by the manager are exempt from this restriction.
      5.   Driveway Restrictions:
         a.   No vehicle shall be turned around in any driveway.
         b.   Vehicles shall not be stopped so as to block any driveway, except
for a funeral procession and vehicles used in any cemetery under the direction
of the manager.
         c.   Authorized vehicles stopped in any driveway shall be removed when
requested to do so by the manager or other city employees or tools of any kind,
or sell or give away soil, sod or other material.
   C.   Supervision Of Funerals: On entering and while within the any cemetery,
funeral processions and services shall be entirely under the direction of the
manager and his or her assistants and must be conducted accordingly.
   D.   Use Of Cemetery Property: Cemetery employees shall not loan city
property of any kind, including tools and other equipment, or sell or give away
soil, sod or other material. Should the cemeteries have excess soil, sod or
other natural material, the cemetery manager may request permission of the city
council to sell, give away or dispose of how the city council sees fit.
   E.   Lots:
      1.   Filling Or Grading: No lot shall be filled or graded above the
natural level without permission from the manager.
      2.   Enclosures Or Posts:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enclose any lot or lots in
the cemeteries with fence, curbing, wire, rods, trees, shrubbery or any other
material.
         b.   Corner posts shall be permitted on certain lots, but hereafter,
no corner posts shall be set so that the top is above the surface of the
ground. The top of the corner post is to be flat.
   F.   Planting, Trimming, Cutting Vegetation:
      1.   Permission shall be obtained from the manager before planting any
shrubs or trees. No shrubs or trees shall be removed or cut down without
permission.
      2.   No person shall trim, prune or remove any branches from any tree in
any cemetery. On request, the manager shall do any pruning which is deemed
necessary.
      3.   No planting of flowers nor the placing of plants which are planted
or established in pots shall be permitted in the park block except as directed
by the manager.
   G.   Damage To Property:
      1.   No person shall go upon any lot, avenue, street, lane or alley or
public ground within any cemetery to disturb, dig up, remove or carry away any
turf, earth, tree, shrub or plant, or any other material without permission
from the manager.
      2.   Picking of flowers, wild or cultivated, breaking or injuring any
tree or shrub, or injuring any monument, marker, ornament, or other structure
or property within the cemeteries, either on the lots or on the public ground,
is prohibited.
   H.   Deposit Of Rubbish: No person shall deposit or leave on any land,
street, walk or driveway any grass, hay, earth or rubbish of any kind. Rubbish
boxes are placed throughout the cemeteries, and all rubbish shall be placed
within these boxes, unless a person is permitted to do otherwise by the
manager.
   I.   Animals. No person shall be allowed to bring any animal into any
cemetery or permit his or her animal to enter any cemetery.
   J.   Firearms:
      1.   Firearms are prohibited in all cemeteries, except by military
personnel for military funerals, unless allowed by the manager.
      2.   No discharging of firearms within the cemeteries, except at military
funerals by military personnel, shall be allowed.
   K.   Authority Of Cemetery Personnel:
      1.   Removal Of Certain Items:
         a.   If anything shall be placed on a lot or grave which shall be
deemed offensive, improper, or injurious to the lot or other lots, or which
violates any of the rules, the manager shall remove the same without notice.
         b.   Funeral designs, floral pieces, etc., shall be removed as soon as
they become unsightly. The manager and employees shall decline to attempt to
find the same after the removal thereof.
(1989 Code § 5-7)
      2.   Removal Of Vegetation: If any tree, shrub, plant or vine situated on
any lot becomes unsightly, dangerous or detrimental to the adjacent lot,
streets, or alleys or inconvenient to passersby, the manager may remove such
tree, plant or vine, or such parts thereof, as he or she deems necessary, or if
any lot or structure thereon becomes unsightly or dangerous, the manager may
put the same in proper order at the cost of the lot owners, which shall be
collected in the same manner as fines for the violations of these provisions or
rules are recovered and enforced. In case the lot owners cannot be located or
found and collection enforced, the manager shall remove any structure that is
unsightly or dangerous.
   L.   Nonliability Of City:
      1.   The city council shall take reasonable precaution to protect all
private property of lot owners, properly in the cemeteries, from loss or
damage, but it distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from
causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially from the acts of thieves,
vandals, rioters and malicious mischief makers and from all acts of providence
including winds, tornadoes, cyclones, hail, snow or frost, whether the damage
is direct or collateral.
      2.   The city shall use care in examining trees on the public ground and
removing these apparently in unsound and dangerous condition or unsound and
dangerous limbs and branches, but it expressly disclaims all responsibility for
damage either to person or property resulting from falling trees or parts of
trees.
      3.   The city may take such action as may be necessary, though not
expressly authorized by the rules, to protect the property of lot owners or of
the cemeteries from injury, to preserve peace and good order, or to prevent
injury to the appearance of the lots and graves, grounds and buildings.
(1989 Code § 5-7)
   M.   Soliciting: No soliciting shall be allowed in the cemeteries.
7-4-12: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
The proceeds from the sale of lots and other monies which may be collected for
work done from the sale of material or property shall be exclusively used for
the upkeep and improvement of the cemeteries and in preserving the public and
private properties therein, building and repairing enclosures, offices and
other buildings, purchasing tools and other supplies and material, and the
payment of salaries and wages as may be necessary to keep the cemeteries in a
good condition.
(1989 Code § 5-6)
7-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, and all such fines recovered for
violations of this chapter shall be paid into and become a part of the general
fund.
(1989 Code § 5-1)
CHAPTER 5: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
7-5-1: Purpose And Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Regulations Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-5-4: Dispute Resolution
7-5-5: Indemnification
7-5-6: Insurance
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the small wireless
facilities deployment act (Public Act 1000585).
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State and Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the national electric safety code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The federal communications commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property or site, or group
of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
   A.   Listed in the national register of historic places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the national register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the national register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the nationwide
programmatic agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C; or
   B.   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the certified local
government program of the Illinois state historic preservation office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois state historic
preservation office is pending.
LAW: A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the city in public
rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include city-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6)
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-five (25)
cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are
not included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter,
concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based
enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY:
   A.   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
      1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
      2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration. Wireless facility includes small wireless
facilities.
   B.   Wireless facility does not include:
      1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
      2.   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is
between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber optic
cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with
an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
7-5-3: REGULATIONS OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      1.   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      2.   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the structural engineering practice act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the structural engineering practice act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The city shall process applications as follows:
         a.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
            (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed application.
            (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application.
            (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed
application.
            (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   (1)   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            (2)   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            (3)   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            (4)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
city and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after
notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional
application fee. The city shall approve or deny the revised application within
thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed
approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days
of denial shall require the application to submit a new application with
applicable fees, and recommencement of the city’s review period.
            (5)   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            (6)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility
pole, the city and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment
agreement, provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the
applicant shall enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment
agreement.
      3.   a.   Completeness of Application: Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the city shall determine whether the application is
complete and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the city
must specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be
deemed complete if the city fails to provide notification to the applicant
within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the city’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the city.
         b.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         b.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications:
         a.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure.
         b.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration of Permits:
         a.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless
the city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         b.   If the act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements and Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation and Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   a.   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
         b.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         c.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         d.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. 90.672
through 47 C.F.R. 90.675.
         e.   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in subsection C3d. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   a.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         b.   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole,
but in no case on the top of the pole.
         c.   For purposes of this subsection, the terms “communications
space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the national electric safety code as published
by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers.
      5.   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      6.   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the city may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
(100) feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant. If the
applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the applicant shall
provide written certification describing the property rights, technical limits
or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the criteria
in this subsection.
      8.   Height Limitations:
         a.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be below
the height of any primary transmission line; no more than ten (10) feet above
the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the small wireless
facility is collocated.
         b.   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            (1)   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility
pole, other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in
place on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right of way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the city, provided the city may designate which
intersecting right of way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
            (2)   Forty-five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance petition with the Princeton plan commission, in
conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the land
development code.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the city grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights of way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection d. under subsection B1d (Application
Requirements); or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights of way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions to Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the city or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois highway code; or
      3.   a.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-
7201 of the Illinois vehicle code, Metra commuter rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of
the public utilities act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the
public utilities act.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection, “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in Section 3-105 of the public utilities act.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any
requirement:
            (1)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to
offer cable service or video service; or
            (2)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements:
      1.   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
      2.   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this subsection.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate:
      1.   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
         a.   Six hundred dollars ($600.00) per year; or
         b.   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the city utility pole.
      2.   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable on the first day
after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of
intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment:
      1.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after
receipt of written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      2.   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
      3.   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
7-5-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The circuit court of Bureau county, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the small wireless facilities deployment
act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
7-5-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
7-5-6: INSURANCE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   B.   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   C.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. O-18-021, 7-16-2018)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
8-1-1: Application For Service/Termination Of Service
8-1-2: Billing Procedures
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE/TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Application: Application for any municipal utility services or uses,
including potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste collection and disposal
and/or electric (collectively referred to as “municipal utility services”)
requested pursuant to this title shall be made in writing to the finance
department. Every application shall contain a unilateral agreement by the
applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of this title as
conditions governing the use of and/or service from the city’s utility
services. The applicant must sign the application and show a picture ID to
verify age.
   B.   Termination: The person in whose name the municipal utility services
are provided must notify the city with the date to terminate services. This
notification can be in person, by phone, email or in writing. A minimum notice
of one business day is required. Customers shall be liable for utility services
used for a minimum of one business day after the date of notice.
   C.   Service Deposits/Activation Fees:
      1.   Amount Of Deposit:
         a.   If the resident is not the owner of public record of a
residential property to which municipal utility services are to be provided,
that resident is required to pay a deposit to obtain services. The deposit
shall be collected at the time of application for service.
         b.   Deposit fees are:
 
For an electric customer with natural gas              $100.00
For all electric (no natural gas)                      $150.00
For water                                              $50.00
For customers that only have sewer or garbage services $25.00
 
         c.   Non-owners of record conducting business in a commercial building
are required to pay a deposit predetermined by the finance department which
would be equivalent to one (1) months’ service.
         d.   All deposits are held and applied to the final bill.
      2.   Return Of Deposit: Customers can receive their deposits back under
the following circumstances:
         a.   After a period of two (2) consecutive years of satisfactory
payment history with no outstanding account balance, any deposit balance shall
be returned to the customer without interest, upon written request by customer.
         b.   Upon termination of all utility services, the deposit will be
applied to the final bill. Any balance shall be returned to the customer
without interest within 30 days. In an instance where real property has been
abandoned and there is an unpaid, delinquent account, the deposit shall be
forfeited to the city as an administrative termination service fee and the
unpaid account balance shall remain due, owing and subject to collection.
         c.   The director of finance may authorize an increased deposit amount
for customers with past poor payment history. The deposit shall not exceed the
average of four (4) months billing.
   D.   Activation Fee: A thirty-five dollar ($35.00) new activation fee will
be added to the first monthly billing for all new tenants and new owners,
pursuant to the application process as identified above.
   E.   Billing Adjustments:
      1.   Customers are responsible for all metered electric and water usage
without exception. In the instance of a large non-sewer water leak, customers
may complete a sewer abatement request form with the finance department.
Adjustments may be granted by the finance director based on the situation and
evidence provided.
      2.   The city is not obligated to provide utility adjustments for
services rendered. If billing errors are made by the city, the city will issue
credits to correct the past six (6) months only.
   F.   Special Sewer Program: This program is available to customers who use
an excessive amount of outside water that is not collected or treated by the
city’s sanitary sewer system. By paying an annual fee of $60 and signing up for
the program, the city will freeze sewer costs from April 1 through November 30
by capping the usage billed based on the customer’s winter average, calculated
per the reading dates from December 1 through March 30. This is an annual
program that customers must sign up and pay for each year.
8-1-2: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Meter Readings: Meters will be read periodically. For the purposes of
this section, the term “periodic” or “periodically” shall mean the period
between any two (2) consecutive regular meter readings taken, which reading may
occur during intervals of less than, or more than, thirty (30) days. The
customer shall be billed after each meter reading.
   B.   Date Of Billing - Payments: Bills for service or use of the city’s
utilities shall be dated and sent monthly, by mail, electronically or by such
other means which is acceptable to the city and the customer. Bills shall be
due and payable within twenty (20) days after the date of the bill.
      1.   Delinquent Payment: A delinquent payment charge of ten percent (10%)
of the usage and garbage on the bill shall be added to the bill after fifteen
(15) days from the issuance date of the delinquent bill if balance is not paid
in full. One (1) delinquent payment charge may be waived by the director of
finance or designee at the request of the customer. Additional delinquent
payment charges may be waived by the city manager or designee only in
extenuating circumstances at the written request of the customer. The decision
to grant additional waiver of delinquent payment charges rests solely with the
city manager or designee.
      2.   Dishonored Checks/Returned ACH Payments: Any customer who presents a
check or ACH payment to the city which is subsequently returned by the
customer’s bank for any reason shall be subject to charges and fees set forth
in the fee schedule of the city code. After three (3) incidents of returned
payments, customers will be placed on a “cash basis only” status for future
payments. If the returned payment was made pursuant to a shut off notice or was
made to reconnect service after disconnection, the customer will immediately be
subject to a disconnection of services.
   C.   Liability For Payment:
      1.   The owner of the premises being provided municipal utility service,
the occupant thereof and the customer who uses the municipal utilities shall be
jointly and severally liability for payment of any bill rendered by the city
for such service or use.
      2.   Vacating of Premises by Renter: Where a renter has vacated or
abandoned the premises to which municipal utility service is located, and no
new renter has completed the application process, then the municipal utility
service account for the premises shall be transferred to and in the name of the
owner of the premises.
   D.   Discontinuation of Service:
      1.   The city shall have the right to discontinue and/or refuse any
municipal utility services to the customer, with due notice, and to remove the
city property from the customer’s premises whenever the utility bills are in
arrears, or when the customer fails to comply with any of the conditions or
obligations of this title.
         a.   Disconnection And Reconnection Fees: In the event utility bill(s)
in excess of a hundred dollars ($100.00) remains unpaid for a period of thirty
(30) days or, the director of finance shall order the subject utility service
to be disconnected, or limited by a limiting meter (as described in subsection
D3 below). Fifteen (15) days after the due date, a disconnect notice giving
customers five (5) business days to pay the past balance due will be sent by
mail. If payment is not received by the five (5) day extension, the electric
and/or water will be subject to shut off without any further notice. An
administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the city before
service is reconnected and reinstated to the delinquent customer; however, if
service is reinstated between the hours of three o’clock (3:00) p.m. and seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. Monday through Friday or anytime on weekends and holidays,
the administrative fee shall be three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00). All
administrative fees shall be paid in addition to all outstanding monies owed by
the delinquent customer, including any current charges or fees before service
is restored.
         b.   City of Princeton municipal electric employees will not accept
any type of payment when performing above mentioned shut offs. Customers will
have to make required payments at city hall before service will be restored.
      2.   Exceptions To Disconnection Of Electrical Utility Service: No
electric service furnished by the city to residential users shall be terminated
for nonpayment of bills:
         a.   On any day when the National Weather Service’s forecast for the
following twenty four (24) hours covering the Princeton, Illinois area includes
a forecast that the temperature will be thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) or
below; or
         b.   On any day when the National Weather Service’s forecast for the
following twenty four (24) hours covering the Princeton area includes a
forecast that the temperature will be 95 degrees Fahrenheit (95°F) or above.
         c.   While the primary occupant of the residence is a service member
engaged in military service, as defined in 65 ILCS 5/11-117.12-2.
         d.   (1)   Where the customer or his or her family member residing on
the premises has a serious illness, requiring medical electric equipment, in
which case, the customer must produce a certificate from a doctor or from the
health department within five (5) days. The certificate must contain the
following information:
               (A)   Name of the sick person;
               (B)   Verification the sick person is a resident of the address
in question;
               (C)   The name, business address and telephone number of the
certifying party;
               (D)   The nature of the illness and medical equipment requiring
electricity;
               (E)   The period of time during which the lack of electricity
will aggravate the medical condition (i.e. oxygen, electronic treatments, heart
and respiratory monitors, etc.).
            (2)   The certification is good for one month on short-term
illnesses. The certification must be renewed annually for long-term illnesses.
It can also be renewed for one month if the doctor or health department writes
to the director of finance again.
            (3)   If the certification is not renewed and your balance is
delinquent, your utility service will be subject to shut off as outlined in
subsection D1a.
      3.   In reference to subsection D2b and D2c, if the above weather or
medical conditions exist, the city may put a limiting meter on a customer’s
home. If the limiter is installed the customer must continue to pay current
charges to avoid a complete disconnect. Reconnect fees and conditions listed in
D1a of this section apply to the removal of limiting meters.
      4.   Exceptions To Disconnection Of All Municipal Utility Services: The
disconnection of municipal utility service to a customer will not be performed
on the day prior to a city observed holiday or a weekend (Saturday and Sunday).
      5.   Disconnection Of Certain Multi-Family Residences: Pursuant to the
rental property utility service act (765 ILCS 735/0.01 et seq.) the department
manager of electric and/or water for the city shall not terminate any municipal
utility service to buildings with three (3) or more residential apartments
which are served by a common system of water, sewer or electrical services that
goes through a common meter in a single building, until such time as said
director mails, delivers or posts the notice required by 765 ILCS 735/3 at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of termination of said service.
      6.   Collection Of Delinquent Accounts:
         a.   The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters, and/or the city manager is hereby authorized to file a lien,
against any property as to which the utility bill has remained unpaid for a
period of sixty (60) days after it has been rendered.
         b.   When official bankruptcy paperwork is received by the finance
department, a meter reading will be taken and a final bill prepared. The final
bill will be written off as bad debt after the discharge of debtor paperwork is
received. Using the meter readings collected, a new utility account will be set
up for the customer and billings will resume.
   E.   Turn-On And Turn-Off Charges (Water): Whenever the water supply to a
water connection is shut off at the request of the owner of the premises on any
hour of Saturday or Sunday, or Monday through Friday between the hours of three
o’clock (3:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. the city shall charge an
administrative fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for water turn-off. If
reinstatement of the water connection is completed within two (2) hours of the
water turn-off, no fee will be charge for reinstatement. Should a reinstatement
take longer than two (2) hours an additional administrative fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) will be assessed. All fees shall be assessed on the first
business day following the reconnection/disconnection.
CHAPTER 2: ELECTRIC SYSTEM
Section
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Metered Rates
8-2-3: Rates And Charges Established
8-2-4: Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies
8-2-5: Dispute Hearings
8-2-6: Negotiation For Partial Payments
8-2-7: Rules
8-2-7-1: Connection, Disconnection And Miscellaneous Charges
8-2-7-2: Services
8-2-7-3: Meters
8-2-7-4: Extensions, Relocation And Replacements
8-2-7-5: Fluctuation Or Disturbance Of System By Consumer
8-2-7-6: Tampering With System; Damage; Reconnect/Inspection Fee
8-2-8: Service Outside City Limits
8-2-9: Overhead And Underground Service
8-2-10: Facilities Connection Requirements
8-2-11: Electric Utility Payment In Lieu Of Tax
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: The individual or individuals in whose name an account for electric
utility services is established pursuant to this chapter, which may include but
is not limited to, the owner, occupant, or tenant of the premises to which
services are provided under this chapter.
DEMAND CHARGE: The monthly fee billed to an industrial customer as part of the
cost of maintaining the infrastructure required to deliver electricity to their
location. The demand charge is based on the highest 15-minute interval energy
use during the month measured in kilowatts (kW).
DEPARTMENT: The electric department for the city of Princeton.
POWER COST ADJUSTMENT: The variable rate charged to account for the true cost
of purchased power, based on the actual costs of purchased power used to supply
electricity, without having to continuously change the basic electric rates.
PRIMARY RATE: Rate billed to industrial customers where the metering point is
on the primary, high voltage line. Rate also applies to customers who own their
transformer regardless of metering point.
SECONDARY RATE: Rate billed to industrial customers where the metering point is
on the low voltage side of the transformer.
8-2-2: METERED RATES:
   A.   No city electric current shall be furnished or supplied by the city to
any person, business or agency within or without the city, except by metered
rates, and unless the quantity used shall be ascertained and measured by a good
and sufficient meter as in this chapter provided.
   B.   Electricity metered through one meter shall not be combined with
electricity metered through another meter to get a lower rate than either meter
would separately, unless power is supplied at different voltages, which cannot
be metered on one meter.
8-2-3: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
The rates for electrical service for the Princeton municipal electric utility
shall be set by resolution of the city council. All classifications of electric
service under this section are subject to availability, terms and conditions,
and tax and power cost adjustments clause as specified in this section. Rates
and charges for electric service shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential Rates And Charges:
      1.   Inside Corporate Limits: This subsection applies to electric
services provided to residential customers within the corporate limits of the
city, for all domestic purposes.
         a.   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year thereafter,
unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to January of the
year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric rates shall be
adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal year’s increase
received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is expected to result in
increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation utilizing the most
recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost history for the city)
of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), the wholesale increase
shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under circumstances where there is a
net decrease in the wholesale cost from the previous fiscal year, the rate will
increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%). This annual automatic increase can only
be suspended each year by four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council. If
the wholesale increase is greater than five percent (5.00%), the city council
may, by four-fifths (4/5) majority vote, increase electric rates by the entire
wholesale increase amount, or any portion thereof.
         b.   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to adjustments
resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be adjusted due to
federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary increases, or
as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance with policy.
Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be approved by a
majority vote of the city council.
         c.   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are exclusive
of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or consumption
of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as directed by
state law.
         d.   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject to the
power cost adjustment each billing period.
         e.   Residential, inside city:
Residential Rates
Inside City Limits
Winter Rates Per kwh Total*  Summer Rates Per kwh Total*
Residential Rates
Inside City Limits
Winter Rates     Per kwh Total*   Summer Rates             Per kwh Total*
1-500 kwh        $0.0874 $43.70  1-500 kwh                $0.1092 $54.60
501-1001 kwh     $0.0924 $89.81  501-1000 kwh             $0.1169 $112.93
1001+ kwh        $0.0967        1001+kwh                 $0.1223  
Monthly Electric $9.00           Monthly Electric Service $9.00
Service Charge:                   Charge:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/
2011 it is $0.01106/kwh
Senior Citizen Electric Discount (65+) $4.00/month
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations
 
         f.   A customer service charge of nine dollars ($9.00) per month shall
be charged for each account; provided, however, that the discount for customers
sixty five (65) years and above (as evidenced by a government issued photo
I.D.) shall be four dollars ($4.00) per month.
         g.   Billing period: Monthly.
         h.   Conditions of service: Service shall be delivered to the customer
at one of the following standard delivery voltages at sixty (60) hertz:
            (1)   Single-phase service, 3-wire:
               (A)   120/240 volts.
               (B)   120/208 volts.
            (2)   3-phase service, if reasonably available.
      2.   Outside Corporate Limits: This subsection shall apply to electric
services provided to residential customers outside the corporate limits of the
city, for domestic purposes.
         a.   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year thereafter,
unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to January of the
year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric rates shall be
adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal year’s increase
received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is expected to result in
increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation utilizing the most
recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost history for the city)
of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), the wholesale increase
shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under circumstances where there is a
net decrease in the wholesale cost from the previous fiscal year, the rate will
increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%). This annual automatic increase can only
be suspended each year by four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council.
If the wholesale increase is greater than five percent (5.00%), the city
council may, by four-fifths (4/5) majority vote, increase electric rates by the
entire wholesale increase percentage, or any portion thereof.
         b.   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to adjustments
resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be adjusted due to
federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary increases, or
as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance with policy.
Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be approved by a
majority vote of the city council.
         c.   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are exclusive
of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or consumption
of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as directed by
state law.
         d.   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject to the
power cost adjustment each billing period.
         e.   Residential, outside city:
Residential Rates
Outside City Limits
Winter Rates Per kwh Total*  Summer Rates Per kwh Total*
Residential Rates
Outside City Limits
Winter Rates     Per kwh Total*    Summer Rates             Per kwh Total*
1-500 kwh        $0.0980 $49.00   1-500 kwh                $0.1115 $55.75
501-1001 kwh     $0.1024 $100.10  501-1000 kwh             $0.1170 $114.13
1001+ kwh        $0.1067         1001+kwh                 $0.1224  
Monthly Electric $13.00           Monthly Electric Service $13.00
Service Charge:                    Charge:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/
2011 it is $0.01106/kwh
Senior Citizen Electric Discount (65+) $4.00/month
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations
 
         f.   A customer service charge of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per month
shall be charged for each account; provided, however, that the discount for
customers sixty five (65) years and above (as evidenced by government issued
photo I.D.) shall be four dollars ($4.00) per month.
         g.   Billing period: Monthly.
         h.   Conditions of service: Service shall be delivered to the customer
at one of the following standard delivery voltages at sixty (60) hertz:
            (1)   Single-phase service, 3-wire:
               (A)   120/240 volts.
               (B)   120/208 volts.
            (2)   3-phase service, if reasonably available.
      3.   Residential Rates And Charges for All-Electric Service: The
following rates and charges are for residential dwellings only which are
totally electric and have no natural gas service:
         a.   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year thereafter,
unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to January of the
year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric rates shall be
adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal year’s increase
received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is expected to result in
increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation utilizing the most
recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost history for the city)
of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), the wholesale increase
shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under circumstances where there is a
net decrease in the wholesale cost from the previous fiscal year, the rate will
increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%). This annual automatic increase can only
be suspended each year by four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council. If
the wholesale increase is greater than five percent (5.00%), the city council
may, by four-fifths (4/5) majority vote, increase electric rates by the entire
wholesale increase percentage, or any portion thereof.
         b.   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to adjustments
resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be adjusted due to
federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary increases, or
as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance with policy.
Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be approved by a
majority vote of the city council.
         c.   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are exclusive
of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or consumption
of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as directed by
state law.
         d.   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject to the
power cost adjustment each billing period.
         e.   Residential all electric:
All Electric Rates
Winter Rates Per kW Total*  Summer Rates Per kW Total*
All Electric Rates
Winter Rates           Per kW  Total*   Summer Rates             Per kW  Total*
1+ kwh                 $0.0750 NA      1+ kwh                   $0.1162 NA
Monthly Electric                        Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge Inside  $9.00           Charge Inside City       $9.00
City Limits:                            Limits:
Monthly Electric                        Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge Outside $13.00          Charge Outside City      $13.00
City Limits:                            Limits:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh charges,
whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/2011 it
is $0.01106/kwh
Senior Citizen Electric Discount (65+) $4.00/month
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations.
 
         f.   A customer service charge of nine dollars ($9.00) per month shall
be charged for each account; provided, however, that the discount for customers
sixty five (65) years and above (as evidenced by government issued photo I.D.)
shall be four dollars ($4.00) per month.
         g.   Billing Period: Monthly.
         h.   Conditions Of Service:
            (1)   Sixty (60) cycle, single-phase service at a nominal voltage
of 115-230 volts, furnished through one (1) meter for domestic purposes only.
            (2)   The customer must have an approved electric heating
installation which is the only source of space heating in the residence.
            (3)   The customer must have a permanently installed electric hot
water heater which is the only source of water heating in the residence.
   B.   Nonresidential Rates And Charges: All commercial and industrial
customers with services of two hundred (200) amps or less will not have any
demand recording, and therefore, they will remain as rate 104 or 105 charges.
All commercial and industrial customers of greater than two hundred (200) amp
service will have at least “CT” and demand metering, and therefore, they may
qualify for rate 107 or 110 charges if they achieve the kilowatt usage stated
below.
      1.   Commercial Rates And Charges:
         a.   Inside Corporate Limits:
            (1)   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year thereafter,
unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to January of the
year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric rates shall be
adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal year’s increase
received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is expected to result in
increased annual costs to the city (based on a calculation utilizing the most
recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost history for the city)
of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), the wholesale increase
shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under circumstances where there is a
net decrease in the wholesale cost from the previous fiscal year, the rate will
increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%). This annual automatic increase can only
be suspended each year by four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council. If
the wholesale increase is greater than five percent (5.00%), the city council
may, by four-fifths (4/5) majority vote, increase electric rates by the entire
wholesale increase or any portion thereof.
            (2)   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to adjustments
resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be adjusted due to
federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary increases, or
as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance with policy.
Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be approved by a
majority vote of the city council.
            (3)   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are
exclusive of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or
consumption of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as
directed by state law.
            (4)   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject to
the power cost adjustment each billing period.
            (5)   Commercial, inside city:
Commercial Rates
Inside City Limits
Winter Rates Per kwh Total*  Summer Rates Per kwh Total*
Commercial Rates
Inside City Limits
Winter Rates     Per kwh Total*    Summer Rates             Per kwh Total*
1-1000 kwh       $0.1330 $133.00  1-1000 kwh               $0.1231 $123.10
1001-5000 kwh    $0.1158 $596.08  1011-5000 kwh            $0.1239  
5001+ kwh        $0.0897                                         
Monthly Electric $17.00           Monthly Electric Service $17.00
Service Charge:                    Charge:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/
2011 it is $0.01106/kwh
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations.
 
            (6)   A customer service charge of seventeen dollars ($17.00) per
month shall be charged for each account.
            (7)   Billing Period: Monthly.
            (8)   Application:
               (A)   All nonresidential customers with services up to two
hundred (200) amps.
               (B)   All nonresidential customers with services over two
hundred (200) amps whose connected load is not greater than seventy five (75)
kilowatts.
            (9)   Conditions Of Service: Service will be delivered to the
customer at not more than one (1) of the following standard delivery voltages:
               (A)   3-phase service-4-wire 120/208 volts (delta or Y
connected).
               (B)   Combined single- and 3-phase 120/208 or 277/480 volt, and
Y connected, 120/240 volt single-phase.
         b.   Outside The Corporate Limits:
            (1)   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year thereafter,
unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to January of the
year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric rates shall be
adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal year’s increase
received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is expected to result in
increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation utilizing the most
recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost history for the city)
of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), the wholesale increase
shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under circumstances where there is a
net decrease in the wholesale cost from the previous fiscal year, the rate will
increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%). This annual automatic increase can only
be suspended each year by four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council. If
the wholesale increase is greater than five percent (5.00%), the city council
may, by four-fifths (4/5) vote, increase electric rates by the entire wholesale
increase or a portion thereof.
            (2)   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to adjustments
resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be adjusted due to
federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary increases, or
as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance with policy.
Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be approved by a
majority vote of the city council.
            (3)   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are
exclusive of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or
consumption of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as
directed by state law.
            (4)   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject to
the power cost adjustment each billing period.
            (5)   Commercial, outside city:
Commercial Rates
Outside City Limits
Winter Rates Per kwh Total*  Summer Rates Per kwh Total*
Commercial Rates
Outside City Limits
Winter Rates     Per kwh Total*    Summer Rates             Per kwh Total*
1-1000 kwh       $0.1373 $137.30  1-1000 kwh               $0.1275 $127.50
1001-5000 kwh    $0.1177 $607.98  1011-5000 kwh            $0.1266  
5001+ kwh        $0.0916                                         
Monthly Electric $27.00           Monthly Electric Service $27.00
Service Charge:                    Charge:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/
2011 it is $0.01106/kwh
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations.
 
            (6)   A customer service charge of twenty seven dollars ($27.00)
per month shall be charged for each account.
            (7)   Billing Period: Monthly.
            (8)   Application:
               (A)   All nonresidential customers with services up to two
hundred (200) amps.
               (B)   All nonresidential customers with services over two
hundred (200) amps whose connected load is not greater than seventy five (75)
kilowatts.
            (9)   Conditions Of Service: Service will be delivered to the
customer at not more than one (1) of the following standard delivery voltages:
               (A)   3-phase service 3-wire 120/208 volts (delta or/and Y
connected).
               (B)   Combined single- and 3-phase 120/208 or 277/480 volt, and
Y connected, 120/240 volt single-phase.
      2.   Industrial Rates And Charges:
         a.   Secondary Rates And Charges:
            (1)   Demand Charge:
               (A)   Governmental Units: Demand charge (per kilowatt) of eight
dollars seventy five cents ($8.75).
               (B)   Nongovernmental Units: Demand charge (per kilowatt) of
nine dollars seventy five cents ($9.75).
            (2)   Energy Charge:
               (A)   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year
thereafter, unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to
January of the year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric
rates shall be adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal
year’s increase received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an
amount not to exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is
expected to result in increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation
utilizing the most recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost
history for the city) of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00),
the wholesale increase shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under
circumstances where there is a net decrease in the wholesale cost from the
previous fiscal year, the rate will increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%).
This annual automatic increase can only be suspended each year by four-fifths
(4/5) majority of the city council. If the wholesale increase is greater than
five percent (5.00%), the city council may, by four-fifths (4/5) vote, increase
electric rates by the entire wholesale increase or a portion thereof.
               (B)   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to
adjustments resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be
adjusted due to federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary
increases, or as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance
with policy. Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be
approved by a majority vote of the city council.
               (C)   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are
exclusive of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or
consumption of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as
directed by state law.
               (D)   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject
to the power cost adjustment each billing period.
               (E)   Industrial Rates:
Industrial Rates (> 75 KW Pull)
Secondary Metered Customers
Winter Rates Per kW Total*  Summer Rates Per kW Total*
Industrial Rates (> 75 KW Pull)
Secondary Metered Customers
Winter Rates         Per kW  Total*   Summer Rates             Per kW  Total*
1+ kwh               $0.0691 NA      1+ kwh                   $0.0696 NA
Monthly Electric                      Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge       $101.00         Charge Inside City       $101.00
Inside City Limits:                   Limits:
Monthly Electric                      Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge       $108.00         Charge Outside City      $108.00
Outside City Limits:                  Limits:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/2011
it is $0.01106/kwh
Demand charge per KW for governmental customers is $8.75 and non-governmental
is $9.75.
Night Light Rental - $16.00/$21.00
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations.
 
               (F)   A customer service charge of one hundred one dollars
($101.00) per month shall be charged for each account within the corporate
limits, and one hundred eight dollars ($108.00) per month shall be charged for
each account outside the corporate limits.
               (G)   Billing Period: Monthly.
               (H)   Application: All customers with over two hundred (200) amp
service and whose connected load is greater than seventy five (75) kilowatt.
               (I)   Conditions Of Service: Service will be delivered to the
customer at not more than one (1) of the two (2) following standard delivery
voltages:
                  i.   3-phase service-3-wire 120/240/208 volts (Y connected),
480/277 volts (delta connected).
                  ii.   Combined single- and 3-phase 120/208 or 277/480 volt Y
connected, 120/240 volt single-phase.
                  iii.   PMU will provide and maintain all facilities necessary
to deliver and meter one (1) of the above delivery voltages at one (1)
specified location.
               (J)   Demand Look Back Period: The demand charge will be based
on the higher of the current demand reading or seventy percent (70%) of any of
the previous eleven (11) months demand reading.
         b.   Primary Rates And Charges:
            (1)   Demand Charge:
               (A)   Governmental Units: Demand charge (per kilowatt), eight
dollars seventy five cents ($8.75).
               (B)   Nongovernmental Units: Demand charge (per kilowatt), nine
dollars seventy five cents ($9.75).
            (2)   Energy Charge:
               (A)   For bills rendered in January 2017, and each year
thereafter, unless waived by the city council at a council meeting prior to
January of the year for which the increase is to take effect, the electric
rates shall be adjusted by an automatic increase based on the prior fiscal
year’s increase received by the Illinois municipal electric agency (IMEA) in an
amount not to exceed five percent (5.00%). If the wholesale increase is
expected to result in increased annual cost to the city (based on a calculation
utilizing the most recently available completed twelve (12) month IMEA cost
history for the city) of less than seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00),
the wholesale increase shall be limited to five percent (5.00%). Under
circumstances where there is a net decrease in the wholesale cost from the
previous fiscal year, the rate will increase by five-tenths percent (0.5%).
This annual automatic increase can only be suspended each year by four-fifths
(4/5) majority of the city council. If the wholesale increase is greater than
five percent (5.00%), the city council may, by four-fifths (4/5) vote, increase
electric rates by the entire wholesale increase or a portion thereof.
               (B)   Electric rate adjustments shall not be limited to
adjustments resulting from increases received from IMEA but may also be
adjusted due to federal or state regulatory mandates, as required for budgetary
increases. or as required to establish and/or maintain reserves in accordance
with policy. Any additional adjustment pursuant to this provision must be
approved by a majority vote of the city council.
               (C)   Tax Adjustment: Rates set forth in this subsection are
exclusive of any tax that may be imposed pursuant to state law on the use or
consumption of electricity. Any such taxes shall be billed and collected as
directed by state law.
               (D)   Power Cost Adjustment: The energy charges shall be subject
to the power cost adjustment each billing period.
               (E)   Industrial Rates:
Industrial Rates (> 75 KW Pull)
Primary Metered Customers
Winter Rates Per kW Total*  Summer Rates Per kW Total*
Industrial Rates (> 75 KW Pull)
Primary Metered Customers
Winter Rates         Per kW  Total*   Summer Rates             Per kW  Total*
1+ kwh               $0.0681 NA      1+ kwh                   $0.0686 NA
Monthly Electric                      Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge       $123.00         Charge Inside City       $123.00
Inside City Limits:                   Limits:
Monthly Electric                      Monthly Electric Service
Service Charge       $128.00         Charge Outside City      $128.00
Outside City Limits:                  Limits:
Illinois State Utility Tax: $0.0032 x kwh usage or 5% of electric kwh
charges, whichever is less.
Power Cost Adjustment: Varies monthly based on fuel costs - as of 07/25/2011
it is $0.01106/kwh
Demand charge per KW for governmental customers is $8.75 and non-governmental
is $9.75.
Night Light Rental - $16.00/$21.00
Amount Shown is for sake of example and may vary from system calculations.
 
               (F)   A customer service charge of one hundred twenty three
dollars ($123.00) per month shall be charged for each account within the
corporate limits and one hundred twenty eight dollars ($128.00) per month shall
be charged for each account outside the corporate limits.
               (G)   Billing Period: Monthly.
               (H)   Application: All customers with over two hundred (200) amp
service and whose connected load is greater than seventy five (75) kilowatts.
               (I)   Conditions Of Service: Service will be delivered to the
customer at not more than one (1) of the two (2) following standard delivery
voltages:
                  i.   3-phase service 3-wire 120/208 or 277/480 volts (Y
connected), 480/277 volts (delta connected).
                  ii.   Combined single- and 3-phase 120/208 or 277/480 volt Y
connected, 120/240 volt single-phase.
                  iii.   PMU will provide and maintain all facilities necessary
to deliver and meter one (1) of the above delivery voltages at one (1)
specified location.
               (J)   Demand look back period: The demand charge will be based
on the higher of the current demand reading or seventy percent (70%) of any of
the previous eleven (11) months demand reading.
      3.   Large Economic Discount B6 Rate:
         a.   New or expanding businesses who were neither an end user of
another participating Illinois municipal electric agency member nor an end use
customer of a nonparticipating member immediately prior to locating within a
participating IMEA member’s service territory whose place of business is within
the corporate limits of the city and who meet the following criteria:
         b.   Service will be delivered under the same voltage levels allowed
in rate 110. The business must reach and maintain a peak load of at least one
thousand (1,000) kilowatts, or will be adding a new load of at least one
thousand (1,000) kilowatts;
         c.   The business has not been in business at the same location or
another location within the participating IMEA member’s service territory for
more than sixty (60) days at the time service commences under this rate, or the
business is adding a load of one thousand (1,000) kilowatts or more, which must
be metered separately, at its existing location at the time service commences
under such rate and the customer has taken service from the participating IMEA
member at the location for the previous twelve (12) months.
         d.   This rate will be available for a period of five (5) years if,
and only if, the IMEA B6 rate is available to the city.
         e.   If the business has not reached the threshold of one thousand
(1,000) kilowatts within twelve (12) months of the date service is first
provided, service shall thereafter continue under rates otherwise applicable to
said business.
         f.   Rates shall be calculated as follows:
            (1)   Demand charge shall be that charged to the city per kilowatt
under the IMEA B6 rate, plus fifteen percent (15%).
            (2)   Energy charge shall be that charged to the city per kilowatt
hour under IMEA B6 rate, plus fifteen percent (15%).
            (3)   The energy charge shall be subject to the IMEA power cost
adjustment each billing period.
            (4)   In lieu of this rate, the city may, at the city’s sole
option, install backup generation facilities on the customer’s property at the
city’s expense if approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency. A
customer service charge will be assessed the same as other primary or secondary
industrial customers.
   C.   Operating And Reserve Accounts: The city’s electric utility shall
maintain a cash balance in the operating account of at least one month’s
operating revenue. The city shall also set aside in a separate reserve account
a minimum of three (3) months’ operating revenue. These minimum balances shall
be met no later than July 1, 2014. The city council may use reserve funds in
excess of five (5) months’ operating revenue for intergovernmental loans, as
long as the funds are returned dollar for dollar. Reserves may only be used in
emergency situations in the electric department for natural or unnatural
disasters not covered by insurance. Reserves may also be used for capital
improvements in the electric department mandated by the state or federal
government. In either case, use of these funds shall be approved by at least a
four-fifths (4/5) majority of the city council. In the event these reserve
funds are needed, the city manager shall review and determine an appropriate
plan to replenish the funds.
(Ord. O-16-016, 9-19-2016; O-18-008, 5-7-2018)
8-2-4: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Billing and payment for electric services provided pursuant to this
chapter shall follow the billing procedures set forth in section
8-1-2 of this title. All bills for electric service shall be paid in the city
clerk’s office at the city hall or at a city designated location.
   B.   Bill Information: All bills shall state appropriate meter information;
kilowatt hours consumed; the amount of demand kilowatt hours if applicable; the
amount of the current bill; the amount of the balance unpaid; and the present
amount due.
   C.   Disconnection Of Service Or Limiting Meter Installation:
      1.   Residential and commercial bills not paid within fifteen (15) days
after the due date become delinquent, and the city may disconnect services as
provided in section
8-1-2D of this title. The city may, in lieu of disconnecting service, install a
current limiting meter for the purpose of reducing electric consumption, as set
forth in section
8-1-2 or this chapter.
      2.   The notice to disconnect service shall be served by personal service
or by certified or registered mail, and shall contain the following:
         a.   The name, address and account number of the customer.
         b.   The date of the notice.
         c.   The city’s policy to disconnect five (5) days after the mailing
of notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, and the earliest
date upon which disconnection may occur.
         d.   The total amount required by the disconnection date in order to
bring the account current.
         e.   A statement that service will not be terminated if:
            (1)   Prior to the disconnect date, the customer submits to the
electric department a written request for a hearing as provided in section
8-2-5 of this chapter.
            (2)   Any of the exceptions set forth in section
8-1-2D2 of this title applies.
         f.   A statement that if the customer has not contacted the city clerk
to avail himself or herself of the rights stated above within the five (5) day
disconnection period, the disconnection of service will proceed on or after the
date in subsection C2c of this section.
      3.   Any customer whose service has been scheduled for disconnection and
proper prior notice given will have his or her electric service disconnected
without any additional notification. City municipal electric employees will not
accept any type of payment when performing the above mentioned disconnections.
Customers will have to make required payments at city hall before service will
be restored.
(1989 Code § 13-28)
   D.   Reconnection Of Service: Any customer whose service has been
disconnected or had a limiting meter installed on account of nonpayment may
have the service turned on again or the limiting meter removed, as the case may
be, by paying the account in full, required deposits, if any, and a fee as
provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 13-28)
8-2-5: DISPUTE HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearing Request:
      1.   At any time prior to the earliest date on which disconnection may
occur, as set forth in the disconnect notice provided pursuant to section
8-2-3C, a customer may request a hearing before an administrative hearing
officer appointed pursuant to section
1-4A-6 of this code. Requests for hearing must be submitted in writing to the
electric department.
      2.   No disconnection of electric service will occur during the pendency
of the hearing or prior to issuance of a final decision.
   B.   Hearings under to this section shall be conducted pursuant to the
procedures set forth in article 4A of title 1 of this code.
   C.   No Request For Hearing: If a written request for a hearing has not been
tendered prior to the earliest date for disconnection set forth in the
disconnect notice provided pursuant to subsection
8-2-3C of this chapter, then the electric department may disconnect service on
any day thereafter pursuant to this chapter, and no further hearing shall be
required. However, an extension of time in which to file a request for a
hearing may be granted in the discretion of the city manager upon the showing
of good cause by the person requesting the extension.
   D.   Order And Decision:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after a hearing, the administrative hearing
officer shall issue a written order and decision. The decision shall be based
exclusively upon evidence produced at the hearing, set forth all findings of
fact, reasons for the decision and, in the event of a finding in favor of the
city, the earliest possible date on which electric services may be
disconnected.
      2.   The written order and decision shall be sent by registered or
certified mail to the person requesting the hearing, or his or her counsel, and
no disconnection of electric service shall occur until ten (10) days after
depositing the order and decision for mailing.
      3.   A written determination issued pursuant to this section shall
constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review and is subject
to review under the Illinois administrative review law.
8-2-6: NEGOTIATION FOR PARTIAL PAYMENTS:
   A.   The city may, for good cause shown, refuse to accept a partial payment
from any customer subsequent to the service of a disconnect notice pursuant to
section
8-2-3C. However, it is the policy of the department, upon request of a
customer, to seek to negotiate a partial payment schedule with the customer if
the request is received prior to the issuance of a disconnect notice. The
amount of the partial payment required shall be determined pursuant to
negotiation between the electric department or its designee and the customer.
   B.   After a payment schedule has been arranged, the city shall include a
notation on subsequent monthly bills indicating the amount of the arrearage
due.
   C.   At the discretion of the city manager or his or her designee, a current
limiting meter may be installed on the customer’s premises for the specific
purpose of reducing electric usage until such time as the account is paid in
full.
(1989 Code § 13-31)
8-2-7: RULES:
This section
8-2-6 shall govern the supply of electric current and electric service to
consumers.
(1989 Code § 13-33)
8-2-7-1: CONNECTION, DISCONNECTION AND MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES:
Connection, disconnection and miscellaneous charges shall be as provided in the
city fee schedule or elsewhere in this chapter.
(1989 Code § 13-33; amd. 2017 Code)
8-2-7-2: SERVICES:
The service outlet for electric services shall be installed by the customer and
should be brought out of the building at the nearest point accessible to the
pole lines from which the service is to be supplied by the department, but the
location of such outlet shall in all cases be subject to the approval of the
electric department.
8-2-7-3: METERS:
   A.   The city shall install meters at the site to which electric services
are to be provided, subject to terms and conditions and determined by the
electric department. Consumers shall accept as a standard of measurement the
meter installed by the electric department.
   B.   In case the meter becomes defective or fails to register correctly, the
quantity of electricity used shall be determined by a test of the meter, by
registration of a meter set in its place during the next period following or by
an amount charged during a corresponding period the preceding year. Any or all
of these methods may be used in determining the proper amount to be charged for
electricity used during such time.
   C.   The department shall, on the request of a residential consumer, make a
test of the accuracy of the meter; provided, that such meter has not been
tested within twelve (12) months prior to the date of making such request for a
test. If the meter has been tested within a period of twelve (12) months prior
to the date of the request for a test, the department shall make such a test,
provided the residential consumer makes a deposit to cover the cost of such
test. If the test shows the meter to be over four percent (4%) fast, the
deposit shall be refunded to the residential consumer, but if the test shows
the meter to be not over four percent (4%) fast, the deposit shall be retained
by the department. On any meter which tests more than four percent (4%) fast,
the residential consumer shall be refunded for the actual percentage of error
shown, and such refund shall apply to all bills paid for a period of six (6)
months prior to the date of such test.
   D.   The consumer shall provide a suitable place for the department to set
its meter accessible to the outside and shall provide and install a suitable
meter board for its installation. The consumer shall be responsible for and
reimburse the department for any damage to the meter while it is on the
consumer’s premises.
   E.   In wiring in meter loops on 2-wire installations, both lines and both
load wires shall be brought out to the meter board. For 3-wire installations,
the three (3) lines and the three (3) load wires shall be brought out to the
meter board.
   F.   1.   The department reserves the right to refuse to set meters or to
turn on the electricity unless the consumer’s wiring is installed in accordance
with its rules.
      2.   The department reserves the right to discontinue service and remove
its meters without notice in case the consumer fails to comply with the
department’s rules and regulations, other than for nonpayment of service
charges or electric rates established herein.
      3.   The department shall have the right, through its authorized
employees, at all times to access the premises of the consumer for the purpose
of reading, examination, testing, repairing or removing the meter.
(1989 Code § 13-33)
8-2-7-4: EXTENSION, RELOCATIONS AND REPLACEMENTS:
   A.   The department shall extend its pole lines a distance of one city block
of average length for a consumer. Consumers requiring extensions of unusual
length, or for special service, or for temporary use shall pay in advance the
cost of the labor and materials to be used in making such extensions.
   B.   Consumers requiring removal, relocation or replacement of an existing
pole line shall pay in advance the cost of the labor and materials used in
making such removal, relocation or replacement.
   C.   Customers requiring a reconnect of electric service on overtime shall
be charged for the overtime at the rates set forth by the city in advance of
said reconnection.
   D.   Consumers requesting a line crew for an outage that is determined to be
on the consumer end shall be charged the overtime rate for said line crew.
(1989 Code § 13-33)
8-2-7-5: FLUCTUATION OR DISTURBANCE OF SYSTEM BY CONSUMER:
Electric service must not be used in such a manner as to cause unusual
fluctuations or disturbances to the city’s distribution system. If necessary,
the consumer causing such disturbances will be required to install suitable
equipment to reasonably limit such disturbances at the consumer’s expense. The
consumer will be required to provide and pay for the installation of any
equipment necessary to provide nonstandard voltage or above normal voltage
regulation or above normal continuity of service. Failure to comply can result
in the disconnection of service or the installation of a limiting meter until
such action to correct such fluctuations or disturbances are completed.
(1989 Code § 13-33)
8-2-7-6: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM; DAMAGE RECONNECT/INSPECTION FEE:
   A.   If any electric service is disconnected or any electric meter removed
or tampered with without the authorization of the city electric department, the
customer will be charged a reconnect and/or inspection fee as provided in the
city fee schedule or this chapter. The inspection will only cover the first
point of electrical disconnect.
   B.   Any person who causes damage to any meter, electric line, pole line or
pole, or any other equipment or property of the city electric department, by
any means whatsoever, will be responsible for the cost to the city to repair or
replace the damaged equipment or property.
8-2-8: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
Electric service may be furnished and sold by the city to consumers outside the
corporate limits of the city where permitted by 65 ILCS 5/11-117-6.
8-2-9: OVERHEAD AND UNDERGROUND SERVICE:
   A.   Overhead Service: The city shall furnish electrical service for all
residential customers, except subdivisions, as provided in this chapter, on an
overhead construction basis. Overhead residential electric service shall be
installed by the city to the city connection point nearest the premises to be
served.
(1989 Code § 13-51)
   B.   Underground Service:
      1.   Residential Customers: Residential customers shall be responsible
for the installation of and payment for underground electrical service from the
city connection point nearest the premises to be served. Underground electrical
service to residential customers shall include, but shall not be limited to,
secondary services such as two hundred forty (240) volt service.
      2.   Subdivisions: Any developer, subdivider or builder hereafter
desiring the installation of electrical services underground within a platted
subdivision shall pay to the city, in advance, a nonrefundable payment equal to
the excess difference in cost to the city between an underground installation
and an overhead installation.
      3.   The installation of underground electrical services shall be subject
to the following conditions:
            (1)   The granting of easements to the city to allow access by the
city for installation, repair and maintenance of underground electrical lines
and equipment.
            (2)   That all obstructions be removed from the easements.
            (3)   That lot lines and finished grades be appropriately marked at
suitable intervals.
            (4)   That where abnormal ground conditions are believed to exist,
it shall be determined by test that ground conditions in the easement are
acceptable.
            (5)   That the city shall be provided with a detailed map or plat
of the subdivision, showing the lots to be served, identified by number, lot
dimensions, and easement locations.
            (6)   A refundable deposit equivalent to the estimated cost of
overhead facilities (in addition to a nonrefundable charge equal to the
difference in cost in overhead and underground facilities) shall be invoked
where appropriate. The refundable deposit shall be invoked at the option of the
electric department.
(1989 Code § 13-52)
8-2-10: FACILITIES CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
The city will allow city electric utility customers to undertake behind the
meter renewable generation and make associated connections to the city’s
electric system when said customer has made appropriate application to the city
and complied with the city facilities connection requirements. The city
application for proposed behind the meter renewable generation and the
facilities connection requirements shall be available in the office of the city
clerk. The facilities connection application and requirements shall be as
promulgated by the city electric utility department staff, with the assistance
of the city’s consulting engineers in that regard. The facilities connection
application requirement may be amended from time to time by the city electric
utility staff, with the assistance of the city's consulting engineer.
(1989 Code § 13-36)
8-2-11: ELECTRIC UTILITY PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAX:
The Princeton municipal electric utility will pay to the city of Princeton
general fund a monthly payment in lieu of tax for all kilowatt hours of
electricity sold at a rate as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 13-37)
ARTICLE 2A: RENEWABLE RESOURCES, INTERCONNECTIONS AND NET METERING
Section
8-2A-1: Interconnection
8-2A-2: Net Metering Policy
8-2A-1: INTERCONNECTION:
   A.   City of Princeton electric utility shall make available, upon request,
interconnection services to any customer that meets the required guidelines.
Interconnection services refers to on-site generating facilities connected to
the city’s electric utility electric distribution system in a manner that will
allow excess electricity generated by the eligible on-site generating facility
to be safely delivered onto the city’s electric utility’s electric distribution
system.
   B.   Guidelines for interconnecting to the utility system:
      1.   Only generating facilities that have been approved by the
superintendent of electric generation shall be interconnected with the city’s
electric utility’s electric distribution system.
      2.   Interconnection services shall only be available to premises with
aggregated total generation at a single customer site of less than two percent
(2%) or 600 kW, whichever is smaller.
      3.   All interconnections shall comply with the institute of electrical
and electronics engineers (“IEEE”) Standard 1547 for interconnecting
distributed resources with electric power systems (IEEE 1547) as they may be
amended from time to time.
      4.   The city electric utility is under no obligation to purchase energy
supplied to the utility under this standard. This does not preclude the
customer meeting applicable standards that would allow the customer to supply
power onto the utility’s system and receive credit for such energy under
section
8-2A-2 below.
      5.   If the customer qualified under the interconnection standard but
does not qualify under section
8-2A-2, then any energy delivered to the utility system shall be surrendered to
the utility with no value. The city’s electric utility will install a meter
that will not provide any credit for energy delivered to the utility system and
the customer will pay for any costs associated with the meter change.
      6.   Customers will comply with all other applicable utility standards
for interconnection.
      7.   Capacity Of 10 kW: Systems of 10kW or less and interconnected to the
utility system shall comply with IEEE 1547 section 5.5, periodic
interconnection tests. All interconnection related protective functions and
associated batteries shall be periodically tested at intervals specified by the
manufacturer system integrator, or the authority that has jurisdiction over the
distributed resources interconnection, or all tests shall be performed at a
minimum of every three (3) years. Periodic test reports shall be maintained and
submitted to the city’s electric utility.
      8.   Capability Greater Than 10 kW: Systems of greater than 10 kW shall
perform all interconnection-related protective functions and associated battery
testing on a yearly basis. All test reports shall be submitted to the city’s
electric utility after completion of the yearly testing.
      9.   Reports required under subsection B7 and B8 must be submitted within
thirty (30) days of the anniversary date of the energizing of the interconnect
generating. If the required reports are not received within the period, the
generation must be disconnected until such time as the reports are submitted.
   C.   The city’s electric utility shall develop such documents as needed to
implement interconnection.
8-2A-2: NET METERING POLICY:
   A.   The city’s electric utility shall make available, upon request, net
metering service to any customer taking service from the city’s electric
utility and who meets the requirements set forth herein. For purposes of this
chapter, “net metering” means service to an electric customer under which
electric energy generated by that electric customer from an eligible on-site
generating facility owned by the customer and, under some circumstances,
delivered to the local distribution facilities may be used to offset electric
energy provided by the electric utility to the electric customer as provided
for herein.
   B.   Eligible On-Site Generating Facility: An eligible on-site generating
facility shall be defined as a renewable generating facility such as a
photovoltaic facility and small wind turbines. Other forms of renewable
generation, such as sources fueled by landfill methane, fuel cells, or micro
turbines fueled by renewable fuels shall be considered on a case by case basis.
In all cases, facilities interconnected must be deemed to be renewable to
qualify for net metering.
   C.   The electric generating facility must also abide by the city’s electric
utility interconnection standards set forth in section
8-2A-1 above.
   D.   Subject to the limitations set forth herein, the city’s electric
utility shall make net metering service available upon request to any city
electric utility electric customer with a qualifying generating facility of 10
kW capacity or less.
   E.   Any generating facility greater than 10 kW but less than 600 kW shall
be considered on a case by case basis. The decision with respect to such
facilities shall be made by the superintendent of electric generation.
   F.   Total net metered capacity interconnected under this chapter for the
city’s electric utility system shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
system’s peak as it existed in the prior calendar year. In the event that the
system peak is reduced such that the existing net capacity exceeds the two
percent (2%) level, those existing net metered customers shall be allowed to
continue under this policy. However, no new interconnections will be allowed
until such time as the system peak grows such that net metered capacity is
again no greater than two percent (2%) of the system’s peak.
   G.   Energy generated by the customer-owned generator will offset the energy
required by the customer’s load during the billing period. For any energy
generated by the customer in excess of the energy required by the customer’s
loads for a given billing period a credit shall be carried forward to the
customer’s next billing period. In no case shall credits for excess energy be
carried forward for a period greater than three billing periods. In the event
of termination of an account qualifying for net metering under this section,
any outstanding credits are surrendered. Under no circumstances will be there
by payments, or credit transfers for excess energy.
   H.   In as much as the generating facility that is net metered by the city
under this section generates renewable energy credits (RECs) under state or
federal law, the city shall retain the value of such credits.
   I.   Any costs the city electric utility incurs associated with the net
metering program, including, but not limited to, changes in metering, other
physical facilities or billing-related costs, shall be borne by the
participants in the net metering program provided however that such costs shall
be capped at one thousand dollars ($1,500.00) to each qualifying customer
interconnecting facilities of 10 kW or less. For those facilities greater than
10 kW that are deemed to qualify under this policy, all costs associated with
the program shall be borne by the participant.
   J.   The city’s electric utility shall develop such documents as needed to
implement this section.
CHAPTER 3: WATER SYSTEM
Section
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Charges Established
8-3-3: Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies
8-3-4: Rules
8-3-4-1: Application For Service; Deposit Requirements
8-3-4-2: Services
8-3-5: Water Meters
8-3-6: Service Outside City Limits
8-3-7: Extension Of Mains
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The individual or individuals in whose name an account
for water utility services is established pursuant to this chapter, which may
include but is not limited to, the owner, occupant, or tenant of the premises
to which services are provided under this chapter.
DEPARTMENT: Water department of the city of Princeton.
8-3-2: CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
The rates and charges for water furnished by the city to all consumers thereof
residing within and without the city limits shall be computed as follows:
   A.   Residential Charges:
   Effective 8-6-2024
                                     Effective 8-6-2024
1. Inside City Limits:
  a. Monthly Service Charge:
       5/8" meter               $15.00
       5/8" x 3/4" meter        $15.00
       3/4" meter               $16.00
       1" meter                 $17.00
       1-1/2" meter             $35.28
       2" meter                 $68.00
  b. Monthly Cost:
       Per 100 cubic feet of wat$5.45
       Infrastructure cost      $10.00
2. Outside City Limits:
  a. Monthly Service Charge:
       5/8" meter               $22.50
       5/8" x 3/4" meter        $22.50
       3/4" meter               $24.00
       1" meter                 $25.50
       1-1/2" meter             $57.50
       2" meter                 $102.00
  b. Monthly Cost:
       Per 100 cubic feet of wat$8.18
       Infrastructure cost      $10.00
3.   Bulk water charges             $30.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
   B.   Commercial/Industrial Charges:
   Effective 8-6-2024
                                     Effective 8-6-2024
1. Inside City Limits:
  a. Monthly Service Charge:
       5/8" meter               $15.00
       5/8" x 3/4" meter        $15.00
        3/4" meter               $16.00
       1" meter                 $17.00
       1-1/2" meter             $38.25
       2" meter                 $68.00
       3" meter                 $152.50
       4" meter                 $272.00
       6" meter                 $609.50
  b. Monthly Cost:
       Per 100 cubic feet of wat$5.45
       Infrastructure cost      $10.00
2. Outside City Limits:
  a. Monthly Service Charge:
       5/8" meter               $22.50
       5/8" x 3/4" meter        $22.50
       3/4" meter               $24.00
       1" meter                 $25.50
       1-1/2" meter             $57.50
       2" meter                 $102.00
       3" meter                 $228.50
       4" meter                 $408.00
       6" meter                 $914.00
  b. Monthly Cost:
       Per 100 cubic feet of wat$8.18
       Infrastructure cost      $10.00
3.   Bulk water charges             $30.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. O-21-005, 3-15-2021; amd. Ord. O-24-014, - -2024)
8-3-3: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Billing and payment for water services provided pursuant to this
chapter shall follow the billing procedures set forth in section
8-1-2 of this title. All bills for water service shall be paid in the city
clerk’s office at the city hall.
   B.   Bill Information: All bills shall state appropriate meter information,
gallons or cubic feet consumed, the amount of the current bill, the amount of
the balance unpaid and the present amount due.
   C.   Disconnection Of Service:
      1.   Bills not paid within thirty (30) days after the due date shall
become delinquent, and the city may disconnect services as provided in section
8-1-2D of this title.
      2.   The notice to disconnect service sent pursuant to section
8-1-2D1a of this title shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name, address and account number of the customer and the name
and address of the property owner, if it is not the same as the customer.
         b.   The date of the notice.
         c.   The city’s policy to disconnect five (5) business days after the
receipt of notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, and also
the earliest date upon which disconnection may occur.
         d.   The total amount required by the disconnection date in order to
bring the account current.
         e.   A clear, concise statement of the reason for disconnection,
including the period of consumption for which there has been no payment if
notice of disconnection is for nonpayment.
         f.   A statement that service shall not be disconnected if:
            (1)   Prior to the termination date, the customer or property owner
submits to the water department a written request for a hearing as provided in
this section.
            (2)   Any of the exceptions set forth in section
8-1-2D of this title applies.
         g.   A statement that if the customer or user has not contacted the
city clerk to avail himself or herself of the rights stated in subsection C2f
of this section within the five (5) day disconnection period, the disconnection
of service will proceed on or after the date in subsection C2c of this section.
(1989 Code § 13-79)
   D.   Reconnection Of Service: Any customer or user whose service has been
disconnected for nonpayment may have the service reconnected by paying the
account in full, required deposits, if any, and a fee as provided in the city
fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 13-79)
8-3-4: RULES:
This section
8-3-4 shall govern the supply of water and water service to consumers from the
city.
(1989 Code § 13-77)
8-3-4-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
All persons desiring water service shall make a written application to the
water department for such service on forms provided by the department, and
shall pay all application fees, connection fees, security deposits, or other
fees required pursuant to chapter t of this title.
8-3-4-2: SERVICES:
   A.   Water Taps:
      1.   The city shall make all taps to any city water main and extend
service from any such water main to the property line of any owner requesting
extension of water service to the property line. The cost of the tap and
extension of service shall be paid by the owner to the city based upon the cost
of the time and materials expended by the city for the tap and extension of
service.
      2.   Owners of all properties shall pay a hookup fee to the city upon
connection of their service line to the city water main. The charge for the
hookup shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) for service lines less than two
inches (2") and four hundred dollars ($400.00) for service lines two inches
(2") and greater in diameter. Further, the owner of the property shall
reimburse the city for the time and materials expended by the city in regard to
said hookup.
      3.   All mains or distributing pipes shall be tapped in the body, and in
no case nearer than two feet (2') of either end of the pipe. No pipe shall be
tapped on the hub or the bell, and no tap shall be made within fifteen inches
(15") of each other. No tap shall be larger than three-quarters of an inch (3/
4") in diameter, unless by special permission of the superintendent of
waterworks.
   B.   Installation Of Service Pipes And Appurtenances:
      1.   Every property being furnished with water shall have at least one
service pipe running from the city water main to such property.
      2.   All service pipes shall be of type K copper, not less than three-
fourths inch (3/4") in diameter, or plastic pipe approved for high pressure
water service use and approved by the American Water Works Association (AWWA)
and the department manager unless, in the judgement of the department manager,
an owner proposes a service size inadequate for proper pressure and flow
velocities. In that case, the department manager may require a service line and
meter of adequate size to be installed at the owner’s expense.
      3.   Where a service pipe of one and one-fourth inch (1-1/4") or larger
in size is required, copper, brass or cast iron pipe may be used by special
permission of the department manager.
      4.   On all services of two inches (2") or less in size, a curb box
approved by the department shall be installed.
      5.   Where cast iron pipe is used for services, an approved valve and
valve box shall be used in place of a curb box.
      6.   An approved stop and waste valve shall also be installed in an
accessible location between the curb box and the meter.
      7.   On a written request for service, the department shall install that
part of the service pipe extending from the mains to a point approximately one
foot (1') outside the outside line of the sidewalk, install a curb box and tap
the main. Such installation shall be at the expense of the owner or tenant of
the property or premises supplied with service, and such owner or tenant shall
be charged, at cost, for the labor and material used, but in all cases, the
length of the service charged for will be considered as the measured distance
from the curb box to the center of the street. As a condition of service,
applicants whose overall distance from an existing fire hydrant is greater than
two hundred fifty feet (250') may be required to install, at the applicant’s
expense, a fire hydrant or similar device suitable for sustaining high velocity
flows for the flushing of service lines.
   C.   Turning Water On Or Off: No person who is not an employee of the
department shall open a curb box within the jurisdiction of the department, or
turn off or turn on the water by means of the valve located in such curb box,
under any circumstances, except by special permission, which special permission
may be given by the department manager at his or her option. In cases of
emergency and the department head is not available, such permission may be
obtained from the city manager at his or her option. Any violation of this
subsection shall result in a five hundred dollar ($500.00) reconnection and/or
inspection fee.
   D.   Replacement Of Service Pipes And Appurtenances:
      1.   Whenever the department finds it necessary to replace that part of a
wrought iron pipe service extending from the main to the curb box, the owner or
owners of the property served shall replace that part of the service, if it is
iron pipe, extending from the curb box to the meter at their expense.
      2.   Whenever it shall be necessary to replace the valve between the curb
box and the meter in any service pipe, it shall be replaced by a standard ball
valve approved by the water department.
   E.   Curb Boxes Not To Be Impeded: No curb box in the city shall be covered
up by any sidewalk, crosswalk or driveway. In cases where it is necessary to
build sidewalks, crosswalks or driveways over existing curb boxes, the
department shall be notified prior to installation of such walk, etc., so that
such curb box can be either adjusted so that its top is flush with the top
surface of the walk or driveway, or moved, as the case may be.
   F.   Water Leaks:
      1.   Whenever it shall be discovered that there is a leak in any service
pipe, it shall be repaired at once. If the leak is between the curb box and the
meter, it shall be repaired by the owner or owners of the property or premises
served at their expense. If the service discovered to be leaking is a wrought
iron or lead pipe service, it shall not be repaired but shall be replaced with
materials in compliance with the Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. Admin. Code
Part 890).
      2.   If the owner or owners of the property whose service is found to be
leaking between the curb box and the mater fail to have the leak repaired or
the service renewed, as the case may be, within thirty (30) days after
receiving written notice to do so, the department shall disconnect the water
service to the property until repairs are made.
8-3-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   All water furnished through any water service tap, plug or other
connection which is connected to the mains and distribution system of the city
shall be metered through a water meter of a size and type approved by the
department and shall be tested and installed under the supervision of the
department manager or his or her designee.
   B.   Customers shall accept as a standard of measurement the meter installed
by the department. In case the meter becomes defective or fails to register
correctly, the quantity of water used shall be determined by a test of the
meter by registration of a meter set in its place during the next period
following or by an amount charged during a corresponding period the preceding
year. Any or all of these methods may be used in determining the proper amount
to be charged for water used during such time.
   C.   In all cases where a meter is required for a new installation, the
department shall furnish, at cost, a meter for measuring the water used, and
such meter shall be paid for, prior to installation, by the owner or owners of
the property or premises where the water is used. Such meter remains the
property of the city and shall be installed so as to be accessible from the
outside.
   D.   The department reserves the right to refuse to set meters or to turn on
the water unless the customer’s piping is installed in accordance with its
rules.
   E.   The department shall have jurisdiction over and make all necessary
repairs and tests on all meters connected to its distribution system.
   F.   Customers or owners of the premises served shall be responsible for and
reimburse the department for the cost of repairs on any meter which may be
damaged by freezing, hot water or other preventable causes while in use on the
customer’s or owner’s premises.
   G.   The department shall, on the request of a customer, make a test of the
accuracy of the water meter; provided, that such meter has not been tested
within a period of twelve (12) months prior to the date of making such request
for test. If the water meter has been tested within a period of twelve (12)
months prior to the date of request, the department shall make a test, provided
the customer makes a deposit to cover the cost of such test. If the test shows
the meter to be over four percent (4%) fast, the deposit shall be refunded to
the customer, but if the test shows the meter to be not over four percent (4%)
fast, the deposit shall be retained by the department. On any meter which tests
more than four percent (4%) fast, the customer shall be refunded for the actual
percent of error shown and such refund shall apply to all bills paid for a
period of six (6) months prior to the date of such test.
   H.   When a customer desires to close his or her premises temporarily or the
same are vacated by a tenant, it shall be the duty of the customer or the owner
of such premises to notify the department of such fact and request that the
water be shut off at the curb box and, if in freezing weather, have the meter
removed. Where service is shut off for the above reason, a minimum bill shall
be charged during the period the service is shut off. Reconnection fees as set
for the in chapter 1 of this title shall apply for turning the water on again.
The customer shall be responsible for draining the pipes on the customer’s side
of the meter.
8-3-6: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
City water services may be furnished and sold to customers in specified areas
outside the city limits when, in the judgment and discretion of the city
council, it is practicable to be done, provided that a majority of the owners
of record of the real property in the specified area petition the city council
for such service, and upon such terms and conditions as shall be prescribed by
the city council.
(1989 Code § 13-83)
8-3-7: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
The city shall extend its water mains along any public highway within its
service area on the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Estimated And Actual Costs:
      1.   Upon application being made for an extension of water main, the city
engineer shall make an estimate of the cost of the proposed extension including
pipe, valves, fittings, all other materials and all other costs such as labor,
supervision, engineering, insurance, tools and equipment and other overhead
expenses.
      2.   If the city engineer’s estimated cost of the proposed extension
exceeds three and one-half (3-1/2) times the city’s estimate of annual revenue
to be received from customers or users who will immediately attach to the
extension, the city will finance and make the extension without the requirement
of any payment.
      3.   If the city engineer’s estimated cost of the proposed extension
exceeds three and one-half (3-1/2) times the city’s estimate of immediate
annual revenue, the applicant or the applicant’s authorized agent shall
contract for such extension and shall pay in advance to the city the estimated
cost of the extension less three and one-half (3-1/2) times the estimated
annual revenue.
      4.   Should the actual cost of the extension be less than the estimated
cost, the city shall refund the difference as soon as the actual cost has been
ascertained.
   B.   Eligible Customers Or Users: Original prospective customers or users to
be considered under this section shall be those who have buildings under
contract or construction. An estimate of annual revenue shall be made by the
city and shall be based on the experience of the city regarding the use of
water by other customers or users similarly situated.
   C.   Refunds:
      1.   The city shall make refunds during the first five (5) years after
the date upon which the extension contract has been entered into, and only to
the person who has contracted and paid for an extension as follows:
         a.   Each new additional customer or user to be connected to this main
shall pay his or her prorated share to the city based on a per foot unit cost
of such extension required to reach the end of the property of the original
applicant, plus the usual service charge.
         b.   Unit costs shall be based on actual construction costs of the
extension, divided by the total front footage of all undeveloped property
facing this extension.
         c.   The prorated share shall be the front footage of the lot times
the per foot unit cost.
         d.   This regulation shall apply only on such extensions as may be
made where more than one owner of property facing this extension is concerned.
      2.   The sum of the refunds shall in no event exceed in the aggregate the
amount paid to the city for extension.
      3.   No interest shall be paid by the city on the applicant’s payment or
on any unrefunded balances.
      4.   At the expiration of the five (5) year period, the refund account
shall be closed and no further refund shall be made.
   D.   Extensions Are City Property: Extensions made under this section shall
be and remain the property of the city.
   E.   Additional Extensions: The city reserves the right to further extend
its water mains from and beyond the terminus of each water main extension made
under this section. The applicant or applicant’s agent paying for an extension
shall not be entitled to any refund for the attaching of customers or users to
any further extension.
   F.   Size Of Mains: Extensions made under this section shall be on the basis
of a main size adequate to serve the customer or user but no less than six
inches (6") in diameter or as otherwise required by the Illinois plumbing code.
If the city desires to make the extension of the main with a pipe larger than
the required size, then the additional cost of the larger pipe shall be borne
by the city.
   G.   Contract For Extensions: All water main extensions shall be made by
contract with the applicant in accordance with the conditions of this section.
(1989 Code § 13-84)
ARTICLE 3A: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Scope
8-3A-3: City Policy
8-3A-4: Definitions
8-3A-5: Water System
8-3A-6: Cross Connections Restricted
8-3A-7: Surveys And Investigations
8-3A-8: Backflow Prevention Required; Testing And Records
8-3A-9: Where Protection Required
8-3A-10: Type Of Protection Required
8-3A-11: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-3A-12: Entry Powers; Information Supplied By Consumer
8-3A-13: Inspections, Tests And Maintenance
8-3A-14: Booster Pumps
8-3A-15: Additional Regulations
8-3A-16: Violations; Discontinuance Of Water Service
8-3A-17: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
8-3A-18: Provisions Cumulative; Conflicts
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(1989 Code § 13-105)
8-3A-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the city.
(1989 Code § 13-105)
8-3A-3: CITY POLICY:
The city council shall be responsible for protection of the public water supply
system from contamination due to backflow or back siphonage of contaminants
through the customer’s water service connection. If, in the judgment of the
department manager or his or her authorized representative, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the utility manager shall give notice to the consumer to install
such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to the
premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device at his or
her own expense. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer
to install such device immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing
water service to the premises until such device has been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
8-3A-8 of this article for a period of at least five (5) years.
(1989 Code § 13-105)
8-3A-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Backflow prevention devices or methods
approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the
Association of State Sanitary Engineers, University of Southern California,
American Water Works Association, American National Standards Institute or
certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams; or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in the city shall meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code
(77 Ill. Admin. Code Part 890) and the Illinois environmental protection agency
(35 Illinois administrative code part 653).
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to the city water system, which
may include, but is not limited to, an owner, tenant or occupant.
CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer’s premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer’s water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE: A tested and approved plumbing appurtenance,
complete with shut off valves, installed in a potable water line to prevent
potable water from being mixed with any substance from a piping system
containing non-potable substances, connected in any manner to the potable water
supply.
DEPARTMENT: The water department of the city of Princeton.
DIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A “double check valve
assembly” shall include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the water tightness of each check
valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word “severe”, as used to qualify “health hazard”,
means a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in
death or significant reduction in the quality of life.
INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with the requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water generally not fit for human consumption in accordance
with accepted water supply principles and practices.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. “Plumbing” includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. “Plumbing” includes all piping from discharge or pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. “Plumbing” includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water generally fit for human consumption in accordance with
accepted water supply principles and practices.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing
a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit shall include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the customer.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
shall include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer’s
piping system. The survey shall be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by the city water system to a consumer’s water
system after it has passed through the service connection and is no longer
under the control of the city water department.
8-3A-5: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Components Of Water System: The water system shall be considered as
made up of two (2) parts: the public water supply system and the consumer’s
water system.
   B.   Public Water Supply:
      1.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the department up to the point
where the consumer’s water system begins.
      2.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      3.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s
water system.
   C.   Consumer’s Water System: The consumer’s water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use.
(1989 Code § 13-106)
8-3A-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
enters the supply or distribution system of the city, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the department manager and the Illinois
environmental protection agency.
(1989 Code § 13-113)
   B.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   C.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of the public water supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the department and the agency.
   D.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter the public water supply.
   E.   There shall be no direct connection between potable water lines and
sewage lines or equipment and vessels containing sewage.
8-3A-7: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The department manager shall cause surveys and investigations to be
made of industrial and other properties served by the public water supply to
determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may
exist and to compile and update an inventory of backflow prevention and cross
connection control devices. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the department
manager shall deem necessary, but in no case less frequently than once every
two (2) years. Records of such surveys shall be maintained by the city and
available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
(1989 Code § 13-114)
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his, her or
the public potable water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing
repairs, maintenance, and installations shall be conducted in accordance with
section 3 of the Illinois plumbing license law, being 225 ILCS 320/3.
(1989 Code § 13-109)
8-3A-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED; TESTING AND RECORDS:
It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into the
public water system by ensuring that:
   A.   All cross connections are removed or approved backflow prevention
devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
   B.   Cross connection control and/or backflow prevention devices are
installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, the Illinois
plumbing code and the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Records submitted to the department shall be available for inspection
by agency personnel in accordance with applicable law.
8-3A-9: WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code part 890, and the agency’s regulations, 35
Illinois administrative code part 653, subpart H. In addition, an approved
backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a
consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
department manager, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the department manager, and the
source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the department manager.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the department manager, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code 890, and the agency’s regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code part 653, subpart H. In addition, an approved backflow
prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a consumer’s water
system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the following types of
facilities, unless the utility manager determines that no actual or potential
hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      1.   Salons and restaurants.
      2.   Car washes.
      3.   Chemical plants.
      4.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      5.   Healthcare facilities and mortuaries.
      6.   Laboratories.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      10.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      11.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
(1989 Code § 13-110)
8-3A-10: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsection
8-3A-9C of this article shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed when the
public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could cause
a severe health hazard. The approved fixed proper air gap separation should
always be used where technically feasible.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsection
8-3A-9C of this article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle zone backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire sprinkler systems connected to the public water
supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the fire safety system from another source;
      3.   Water flows into the fire safety system by gravity from a nonpotable
source; or
      4.   There is a connection whereby water can be pumped into the fire
safety system from any other source.
(1989 Code § 13-111)
8-3A-11: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Only backflow prevention devices which are approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross- Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, American Water Works Association, American Society of Sanitary
Engineering or American National Standards Institute or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation to be in compliance with applicable industry
specifications shall be used.
   B.   If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of
the city, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the department manager shall give notice to the
water customer to install such a device immediately. The water customer shall,
at his or her own expense, install such a device at a location and in a manner
in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and all applicable local
regulations and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
as required by the Illinois plumbing code and local regulations.
8-3A-12: ENTRY POWERS; INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY CONSUMER:
   A.   The approved CCCDI shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the city for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross connections.
   B.   The department manager or his or her authorized agent shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross
connection control inspection.
   C.   On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the department manager any information which he or she may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal to provide such information, when demanded, shall, with the
discretion of the department manager, be deemed evidence by the presence of
improper connections as provided in this article.
(1989 Code § 13-115)
8-3A-13: INSPECTIONS, TESTS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The consumer at any premises on which backflow prevention devices
required by this article are installed shall have inspection, tests,
maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following schedule or more
often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in the manufacturer’s
instructions:
      1.   Backflow prevention and cross connection control devices shall be
inspected at the time of installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      3.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter. Required service shall
be performed within fifteen (15) days.
      4.   Reduced pressure principle zone backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer. Required service shall be performed within
five (5) days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test or visual inspection, the name of the tester, and the type and date
of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   The date of each test or visual inspection.
      2.   The name and approval number of the person performing the test or
visual inspection.
      3.   The test results.
      4.   The repairs or servicing required.
      5.   The repairs and date completed.
      6.   The servicing performed and the date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this article are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
utility manager.
(1989 Code § 13-116)
8-3A-14: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump, except those used for fire protection, has been
installed on the service line to or within any premises, such pump shall be
equipped with a low pressure cutoff device designed to shut off the booster
pump when the pressure in the service line on the suction side of the pump
drops to twenty (20) pounds per square inch or less.
   B.   The water consumer shall maintain the low pressure cutoff device in
proper working order and shall certify to the utility manager, at least once a
year, that the device is operable.
(1989 Code § 13-117)
8-3A-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
The city council shall adopt such regulations as it shall deem necessary to
promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections in furtherance
of this article.
(1989 Code § 13-103)
8-3A-16: VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   The department manager is authorized and directed to deny or
discontinue, after ten (10) days’ written notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this article is known to exist including, but not limited to, the
following. Any backflow prevention device required by this article is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
utility manager, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by this article is not installed
and maintained in working order.
   B.   The department manager shall take such other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains.
(1989 Code § 13-102)
   C.   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this article, and to the satisfaction of the department manager, and until a
reconnection fee as provided in the city fee schedule is paid to the city.
(1989 Code § 13-102)
   D.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
department manager reasonably believes that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply exists. Such action shall be allowed
by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   E.   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter is
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(1989 Code § 13-102)
8-3A-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
backflow prevention or cross connection control device, or a device which has
been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply
system.
(1989 Code § 13-108)
8-3A-18: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; CONFLICTS:
This article is in addition to all other ordinance provisions and shall be
construed therewith except as to that part in direct conflict with any other
ordinance provisions. In the event of such conflict, the provisions of this
article shall govern.
(1989 Code § 13-104)
CHAPTER 4: SEWER SYSTEM
ARTICLE 4A: SEWER USE AND SERVICE
Section
8-4A-1: Definitions
8-4A-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-4A-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-4A-4: City Sewer Mains
8-4A-5: Buildings Sewers And Connections
8-4A-6: Use Of The Sanitary Sewer System
8-4A-6-1: Discharges Into System
8-4A-6-2: Interceptors
8-4A-6-3: Maintenance Of Pretreatment Or Flow Equalizing Facilities
8-4A-6-4: Control Manhole
8-4A-6-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-4A-6-6: Special Agreements
8-4A-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-4A-8: Federal Amendments
8-4A-9: Penalty
8-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article and article C
of this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended (33 U.S.C.
1251 et seq.).
ASTM: the American Society for Testing and Materials.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): That amount of oxygen, expressed in milligrams
per liter, utilized in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) for
biological oxidation of the organic material present in wastewater.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the wastewater discharge from soil, waste and other wastewater
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal; also called “house connection”.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand,
suspended solids, phosphorus, ammonia nitrogen, pH and fecal coliform bacteria.
CONSTRUCTION DRAINAGE: Water accumulated in excavations; water taken from the
ground through a well point, underdrain or other dewatering system; water
accumulated as a result of grading; and all other drainage associated with
construction operation.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure in which both sampling and flow measuring devices
can be housed.
COOLING WATER: The unpolluted water from any system for condensing, air
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration or other use and shall be free from odor
and oil.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (Hereinafter Referred To As FSE): A facility engaged
in preparing and/or serving food for consumption by the public such as a
restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer, hotel, school, hospital, prison,
detention facility, county jail, correctional facility or care institution.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
GREASE TRAP SLUDGE (Hereinafter FOG): The solids, lighter than water faction of
wastewaters, from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking, or
consumption of food that are discharged to a pretreatment unit or device
commonly referred to as a “grease trap”. The principal components of the grease
trap sludge are fats, oils and greases.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant not listed as a “compatible pollutant”,
as defined in this section.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any
nondomestic source which is:
   A.   Regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of “the act”, as defined in
this section; or
   B.   Discharges industrial wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL USER OR IU: A source of indirect discharge including, but not
limited to, a manufacturing or process facility, or other facility engaged in
the purchase or sale of goods, transaction of business or who otherwise renders
services to the public.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping
from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business establishment or
process, or from the development, recovery or processing of any natural
resource as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. “Infiltration”
does not include, and is distinguished from, “inflow”.
INFILTRATION INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: The water discharged into a sewer system, including service connections
from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and area
drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and
swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers and combined
sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or
drainage. “Inflow” does not include, and is distinguished from, “infiltration”.
INTERCEPTOR SEWER: A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
INTERFERENCE: An inhibition or disruption of the POTW, its treatment processes
or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal which is a cause of or
significantly contributes to either a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or to the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): section 405
of the clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title
11, more commonly referred to as the resource conservation and recovery act
(RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air
act, and the toxic substances control act. An industrial user significantly
contributes to such a permit violation or prevention of sludge use or disposal
in accordance with above cited authorities whenever such user:
   A.   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by
permit with the POTW or by federal, state or local law;
   B.   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature or
constituents from the user’s average discharge; or
   C.   Knows, or has reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would result in a POTW permit
violation or prevent sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with the above
cited authorities as they apply to the POTW’s selected method of sludge
management.
Mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
NPDES PERMIT: The national pollution discharge elimination permit that is
issued by the Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) setting the
limits on constituents that the permittee may legally discharge. The limits are
set in both concentration and quantity.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any pretreatment standard
specifying quantities or concentration of pollutants which may be discharged to
a POTW by industrial users in specific industrial subcategories as established
in regulations promulgated from time to time by the USEPA in 40 C.F.R. chapter
I, subchapter N.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
NONINDUSTRIAL USER: All users not specifically defined as “industrial users”,
and is further subdivided by premises use as follows:
   A.   Residential: Those premises consisting of any building or parts of
buildings designed for or occupied by one or more persons as a single
housekeeping unit, including such units within multi-family dwellings, flats
and apartment buildings which discharge to the city’s system domestic wastes
only.
   B.   Commercial: Those premises consisting of any building or parts of
buildings designed for or occupied by offices or business establishments
operating for the purposes of purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise, instruction or services for profit, excluding those
establishments defined in this section under “industrial users” and discharging
to the city’s system primarily domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   C.   Governmental Institutional: Those premises consisting of any building,
parts of buildings or groups of buildings used or operated by federal, state or
local governmental or other public entities and all charitable, religious and
educational institutions including hospitals and public and parochial schools
(but not including private institutions operated for profit) and discharging to
the city’s system primarily domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
NONREGULATED INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user that is not a "nonsignificant
industrial user" or "significant industrial user", as defined in this section.
NONSIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I,
subchapter N, where the city has made a finding that such industrial user never
discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the general pretreatment standards)
and the following conditions are met:
   A.   The industrial user, prior to the city’s finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable national categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
   B.   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in 40 C.F.R. 403.12(q) together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
   C.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE: All household type sewage discharged from places of
human habitation, including discharges from sanitary conveniences and kitchen
and laundry wastes. Discharge waste strength shall be considered to be two
hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l) suspended solids at a discharge rate of one hundred (100)
gallons per capita per day. This loading equates to seventeen-hundredths (0.17)
pound of BOD and twenty-hundredths (0.20) pound of suspended solids per capita
per day.
OPERATIONAL ISSUE (OI): Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD, etc.) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which will cause interference with the POTW.
PASS THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into navigable
waters in quantities or concentrations which are a cause of or significantly
contribute to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation). An
industrial user significantly contributes to such permit violation where it:
   A.   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by the
POTW or by federal, state or local law;
   B.   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature and
constituents from the user’s average discharge;
   C.   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a permit violation; or
   D.   Knows or has reason to know that the POTW is, for any reason, violating
its final effluent limitations in its permit and that such industrial user’s
discharge, either alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
increases the magnitude or duration of the POTW’s violations.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or any
other legal entity or its legal representative, agent or assigns.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS: Buildings to be used by the public for religious,
educational, charitable or governmental purposes. Classification of such
buildings shall be made solely by the city council.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works, as defined by section
212 of “the act”, as defined in this section, owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances which convey
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant regardless of ownership, but does not
include sewers, pipes, and other conveyances not connected to the city’s POTW
treatment plant.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants, and institutions.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is “wastewater”.
SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM: All of the common lateral sewers within a publicly
owned treatment system which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters
directly from facilities which convey wastewater from individual structures or
from private property, and which include service connection Y fittings designed
for connection with those facilities. The facilities which convey wastewater
from individual structures or from private property to the public lateral
sewer, or its equivalent, are specifically excluded from this definition, with
the exception of pumping units and pressurized lines for individual structures
or groups of structures when such units are cost effective and are owned and
maintained by the city.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreament standards under
40 C.F.R. part 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N; and
   B.   Any other industrial user that: discharges an average of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater);
contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or is designated as such by the control authority as defined in 40
C.F.R. part 403.12(a) on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)
(6)).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any given
pollutant, as measured by a grab sample, exceeds more than five (5) times the
allowable concentrations in this article.
STANDARD METHODS: Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association.
STORM SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wash waters and drainage water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted
water from any source.
SURCHARGE: The additional cost over the normal charge for the treatment of
wastewater containing pollutants in excess of the amounts found in normal
domestic sewage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Nonfilterable solids contained in wastewater, measured
in accordance with standard methods and expressed in milligrams per liter.
USEPA: The United States environmental protection agency.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause of violation of receiving
water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the
sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processing required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the city wastewater treatment
works or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. The term is sometimes used
as synonymous with “waste treatment plant” or “water pollution control plant”.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently.
(1989 Code § 11-131)
8-4A-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner
on public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges To Natural Outlets; Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
this article.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct or maintain within the city any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all newly constructed
houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right of way in which there is now located a public sanitary
sewer of the city is hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable
toilet facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this article; provided, that such public sewer is within two
hundred feet (200') of the property line.
   E.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, sump pump discharge, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewers. Sump pump discharge which is discharged onto the
surface of the ground, shall not be directed in a manner as to flow off-
property and onto the acreage of another contiguous property.
(1989 Code § 11-134) (O-19-010, 6-17-2019)
8-4A-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under subsection
8-4A-2D of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permits Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written construction
permit signed by the zoning administrator.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
      2.   In addition to the construction permit set forth in subsection B1
above, before commencement of the operation of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written operation permit signed by the
zoning administrator. A permit for the operation of a private wastewater
disposal system shall not become effective until the construction of such
system is completed to the satisfaction of the city.
      3.   Application For Permit: The application for any permit required by
subsection B1 of this section shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the city.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
      4.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee as provided
in the city fee schedule shall be paid to the city at the time the application
is filed.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
   C.   Conditions Of Permit:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or operation of any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
   D.   Inspections: The zoning administrator shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any state of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within seventy two (72) hours of the receipt of notice by the city.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
   E.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with the recommendations of the state
department of public health, the state environmental protection agency, or the
county.
   F.   Discharge Prohibitions: No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted
to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense
to the city.
   H.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater
disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-4A-2D of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within ninety (90) days in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   I.   Provisions Are Additional: The requirements of this section shall be in
addition to any requirements that may be imposed by the state department of
public health, the state environmental protection agency, the county and the
city.
(1989 Code § 11-135)
8-4A-4: CITY SEWER MAINS:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   The type and quality of sanitary sewer pipe and fittings used shall
conform to the respective specifications indicated or the latest designation
thereof as follows:
         a.   Extra strength verified clay pipe (VCP) (ASTM C-700 and ASTM C-
425) VCP with a factory installed polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bell and collar
(ASTM D 1784).
         b.   Extra strength nonreinforced concrete pipe (ASTM C-14 and ASTM C-
443); reinforced concrete pipe (ASTM C-76 and ASTM C-443); reinforced concrete
pressure pipe (ASTM C-76 and ASTM C-361 and ASTM C-443).
         c.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (ASTM D 3034-73). Joints shall be a
solvent weld or compression type in accordance with manufacturer’s recommended
procedure meeting an SDR of 26.
         d.   Asbestos cement (AC) pipe (ASTM C-428).
         e.   Cast iron (CI) pipe:
         f.   Gray C.I. (ASA.A 21.6 or A 21.8) and ASA.A 21.10 or ASA.A B 16.1.
         g.   Ductile C.I. (ASA.A 21.51) and ASA.A 21.10 and ASA.A 21.11.
         h.   Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) pipe (ASTM D-2680).
      2.   Other pipe and fittings not specified in this subsection may be used
only when specifically authorized by action of the city council.
   B.   Manholes: Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade or
direction and at distances not greater than four hundred feet (400') apart.
Manhole covers shall be at such an elevation as to prevent surface water from
entering. Manholes shall be constructed of precast concrete sections with cast
iron steps and four hundred (400) pound cast iron frame and cover. The precast
sections shall be joined together with mastic materials. The exterior of the
entire manhole shall be waterproofed with suitable material.
   C.   Air Test:
      1.   All sewers shall be air tested. If air testing is impractical, an
alternate technique shall be selected from the following:
         a.   Exfiltration method.
         b.   Infiltration method: Two hundred (200) gallons per inch-mile.
      2.   The test procedures outlined in the second edition, November 1973,
section 31 of the book “Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois” are hereby adopted as the regulations governing the
testing of sanitary sewers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any
sanitary sewer to the existing sanitary sewer system of the city until it has
been tested by the regulations adopted. Copies of such test procedures shall be
kept on file at the city office for inspection.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
8-4A-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Restrictions On Connections: No sewer connections shall be allowed
unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations,
force mains and the wastewater treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and
suspended solids.
   B.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required:
         a.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city wastewater
superintendent.
(1989 Code §§ 11-136, 11-147)
         b.   Each sewer which is designed and is to be constructed so as to
constitute an integral part of the system of sanitary sewers within the
boundaries of the city, as such boundaries are now defined and limited or which
may hereafter be defined and limited, shall not be constructed without a
written permit issued by the city. Any sewer project that is within ten feet
(10') of a city water main must also have written approval of the wastewater
superintendent.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for permission to construct
and connect sewers or sewer systems to the sewerage works of the city, either
direct or indirect, shall be accompanied by a copy of the permit issued by the
state environmental protection agency for the proposed sewer construction and
two (2) sets of plans and specifications of the proposed sewer. Said plans and
specifications for all sewers to be constructed within the city shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall be reviewed in
accordance with accepted engineering practices by the engineer for the city.
All costs of review shall be paid by the applicant. The application shall
contain a description of the work to be done, the location of the proposed
connection, the character of the sewage to be discharged and a basis of design
for the sewers or sewer system. The application shall be made by the owner.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
   C.   Connection Charges: Charges for connection to the city sewer system
shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 11-147; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Deposit For Connection: Whenever it is necessary for a city street to
be opened for a sewer connection, the owner of the property being connected to
the sewer shall deposit the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00) with the city
finance director to be used for repairs to the street if not properly repaired
by the owner, or returned to the owner one year after the street is repaired if
the same is still in proper condition.
(1989 Code § 11-147)
   E.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and shall not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
   F.   Use Of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
wastewater superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
(1989 Code § 11-136; amd. 2017 Code)
   G.   Installation And Construction Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   The specifications as outlined in the book “Standard Specifications
For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois”, seventh edition (2014), are
hereby adopted as the regulations for selecting the size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench.
Such specifications are also adopted as the regulations for the connection of
the building sewer into a public sewer. All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials shall be approved by the city before
installation.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
      2.   When joining pipe of dissimilar material, a mastic joining material
shall be used, and the joint shall be encased in concrete.
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at a wye branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no
wye branch is available, an opening may be cut into the public sewer by machine
and a saddle inserted and secured to the sewer and the entire connection
encased in concrete. No building sewer shall connect to a manhole unless
approved by the city.
(1989 Code § 11-147)
      4.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building shall be lifted by an approved means
and discharged to the building sewer. “Overhead” installations shall also be
permissible where necessary to prevent sewer backup into a building. Buildings
utilizing overhead installations shall have a pump or ejector provided to pump
the wastewater to the sanitary sewer service for gravity transport to the sewer
main.
      5.   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   H.   Discharge Of Stormwater Or Surface Waters Prohibited: No person shall
make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, sump
pumps or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater and other sources of
uncontaminated water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Changes In Wastewater Characteristics: If the type, quality or volume
of wastewater from the property for which a sewer permit was previously granted
is expected to change materially and substantially as reasonably determined by
the user or the city, the user previously granted a permit shall give a thirty
(30) day notice in writing to the wastewater superintendent and shall make a
new application to the city prior to such change; provided, that information
previously submitted and unchanged need not be resubmitted by the user. No user
shall materially and substantially change the type, quality or volume of its
wastewater without prior approval of the city.
   J.   Inspections:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent of streets.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
      2.   Every connection to the sewer system shall be inspected by the
superintendent of streets or his or her designee before the connection is
covered, and if such connection is covered before being inspected, the same
shall be uncovered at the owner’s expense for the inspection.
(1989 Code § 11-147)
   K.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incidental to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1989 Code § 11-136)
8-4A-6: USE OF THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
8-4A-6-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Water Runoff; Storm And Combined Sewers:
      1.   Prohibited Discharges Into Sanitary Sewers And Open Drains:
         a.   (1)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, sump pump discharge,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewers.
            (2)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate the
provisions of this subsection Ala, the city shall direct the city attorney to
seek an injunction prohibiting such person, firm or corporation from making or
using such connection.
            (3)   The city shall be responsible for enforcement of this
subsection Ala. The superintendent shall prepare a program of enforcement to
ensure compliance with this subsection Ala.
         b.   (1)   After the effective date hereof, no person within the city
shall make any connection into the existing storm sewer or existing field tile
sewer system within the city’s boundaries for the purpose of discharging
industrial or domestic waste into said system unless an evaluation of said
waste has been conducted and a permit has been issued by the wastewater
department of the city.
            (2)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate the
provisions of this subsection A1b, the city shall direct the city attorney to
seek an injunction prohibiting such person, firm or corporation from making or
using such connection.
            (3)   The city shall be responsible for enforcement of this
subsection A1b. The superintendent shall prepare a program of enforcement to
ensure compliance with this subsection A1b.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
institution, public or private, to connect, or cause to be connected, any drain
carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool or
industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances to
any open ditch, drain, or drainage structure installed solely for street or
highway drainage purposes of the city. Any person, firm, corporation or
institution violating this section A1c shall be subject to penalty as provided
in title 1, chapter 4 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation
continues or exists.
      2.   Discharge Of Surface Waters Into Appropriate Outlets:
         a.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage, including discharge
from sump pumps, shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the city council.
         b.   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon approval of the city council, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 10.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Any substance discharged to the wastewater treatment plant which
causes interference, pass-through or cases the wastewater treatment plant to be
in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or
regulations developed under section 405 of the act.
   C.   Restricted Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if
it appears likely, in the opinion of the wastewater superintendent, that such
wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion
as to the acceptability of these wastes, the wastewater superintendent will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C), or heat in amounts which will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW resulting in interference.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/1) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      3.   Any waters or wastes containing more than one hundred twenty (120)
milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or
product of mineral oil origin, or wastewater from industrial plants containing
floatable oils, fat or grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
wastewater superintendent.
      5.   Any pollutant, including compatible pollutants released at a flow or
pollutant concentration which a user knows or has reason to now will cause
interference with the wastewater treatment plant or will pass through the
wastewater treatment plant.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city council in
compliance with the applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any water or waste containing any noxious or malodorous liquids,
gases, or solids which either singly or by (interaction with other wastewaters
are sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient
to prevent entry into sewers for their maintenance and repair.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate.)
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined in section
8-4A-1 of this article.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      11.   Any water or waste which, by interaction with other water or waste
in the public sewer system, releases obnoxious gases, from suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
      12.   Any water or waste containing any of the following pollutants in
concentrations exceeding the value listed below:
Pollutants Maximum Concentration (Mg/l)
Pollutants                        Maximum Concentration (Mg/l)
Arsenic                           1.0
Barium                            10.0
Boron                             5.0
Cadmium                           0.6
Chromium (hexavalent)             1.0
Chromium (total hex. + trivalent) 4.0
Copper                            2.6
Cyanide                           1.2
Iron                              10.0
Lead                              0.7
Manganese                         5.0
Mercury                           0.0005
Nickel                            4.0
Phenols                           1.0
Selenium                          1.25
Silver                            1.2
Zinc                              5.0
 
(Ord. O-14-11-01-31, 11-3-2014)
   D.   Review And Approval Required:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsections A, B and C of this section, and/
or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in the
code of federal regulations, Title 40, chapter 1, Subchapter N, Water Programs,
Part 403-General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the city,
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment; and/or
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      2.   If the city permits or requires the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the IEPA.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-6-2: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in section
8-4A-6-1 of this section
8-4A-6, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except,
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units.
   B.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   C.   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal, by appropriate means, of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the city. Any removal and hauling of the
collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel shall be performed
by licensed waste disposal firms.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-6-3: MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES:
Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-6-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industrial user shall install a control manhole, and when required by the
city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a control manhole, together with such necessary
meters and other appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such structure, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The control manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-6-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this section
8-4A-6 shall be determined by using the approved method listed in title 40,
part 136 of the code of federal regulations (40 C.F.R. part 136), and it shall
be unlawful for any person to perform any measurements, tests or analyses of
the characteristics of waters and wastes in violation of, or without complying
with, those regulations. Copies of such regulations shall be kept on file in
the city office for inspection.
   B.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this section
8-4A-6 and any special conditions for discharge established by the city or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   C.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per
year, the industry shall supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met.
   D.   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the city at such time and in such manner as is prescribed by the
city.
   E.   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-6-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-4A-6 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to the conditions of this article.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4A-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   1.   Representatives of the state environmental protection agency and
representatives of the United States environmental protection agency, the
zoning administrator or other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the POTW in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
      2.   While performing the necessary work referred to in subsection A1 of
this section on private properties, the representatives of the state
environmental protection agency, the USEPA, the zoning administrator or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the industrial user, and the industrial user shall
be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, except as such may
be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   B.   The zoning administrator and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   C.   1.   The zoning administrator or other duly authorized employees may
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
Information and data furnished to the city with respect to the nature and
frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other governmental
agency without restriction unless the industrial user specifically requests and
is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information of the
industrial user.
(1989 Code § 11-148)
      2.   When requested by an industrial user furnishing a report, the
portions of a report which may disclose trade secrets or proprietary
information shall not be made available for inspection by the public but shall
be made available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses
related to this article, the national pollutant discharge elimination system
(NPDES) permit, the state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment
program; however, such portions of a report shall be available for use by the
state or any state agency in judicial review of enforcement proceedings
involving the industrial user furnishing the report.
(1989 Code § 11-148)
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, information and data provided to the
city by an industrial user which is effluent data shall not be recognized as
confidential and shall be available to the public without restriction.
8-4A-8: FEDERAL AMENDMENTS:
The amendments to the general pretreatment regulations for existing and new
sources contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, as may be amended from time to time,
are hereby incorporated by reference in this article and article B of this
chapter.
(1989 Code § 11-133)
8-4A-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any user who fails to comply with the provisions of this article and
article C of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation exists or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Illegal sump pump connections to the public sanitary sewer system shall
be disconnected from that system. Any noncompliant properties after March 1,
2020, shall be penalized fifty dollars ($50.00), and an additional fifty dollar
($50.00) penalty shall be added to the owner’s utility bill each month until
either a penalty maximum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is attained,
or, compliance is attained.
(1989 Code § 11-132) (O-19-010, 6-17-2019)
ARTICLE 4B: GENERAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
Section
8-4B-1: Definitions
8-4B-2: Compliance With Wastewater Treatment And Pretreatment Regulations
8-4B-3: Reports
8-4B-4: Discharge Limits
8-4B-5: Monitoring
8-4B-6: Compliance
8-4B-7: Spill Containment
8-4B-8: Hazardous Waste Discharge
8-4B-9: Wastewater Haulers
8-4B-10: Discharge Permit Requirements
8-4B-11: Records Retention
8-4B-12: Public Information; Confidentiality
8-4B-13: Enforcement
8-4B-14: Penalties
8-4B-15: Amendments
8-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water
act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
AMMONIA-NITROGEN: The concentration of ammonia in water expressed in milligrams
per liter as nitrogen as measured under standard laboratory procedures in
accordance with standard methods.
APPENDIX: The appendix to ordinance O-17-85-7-1 on file in the office of the
city clerk.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president,
if the industrial user is a corporation;
   B.   A general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
   C.   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above.
A person is a duly authorized representative only if the authorization is made
in writing to the city by a person described in this definition.
BASELINE MONITORING REPORT: That report required by 40 C.F.R. section 403.12(b)
(1)-(7).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) under standard laboratory
procedures in accordance with standard methods.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant (standard potassium dichromate solution) under standard laboratory
procedures in accordance with standard methods.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A sample of wastewater based on a flow proportional or time
proportional method of combining discrete samples.
EPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge which is not a new source.
FATS, OIL OR GREASE (FOG): Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes,
oils, and any other materials that are extracted by trichlorotrifluoroethane
solvent in accordance with standard methods.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.
GENERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the USEPA in accordance
with section 307(b) of the act, which applies to industrial users, and which
includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.5,
and any applicable state pretreatment standards or regulations.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any
nondomestic source which:
   A.   Regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the act; or
   B.   Discharges industrial wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL USER (IU) OR USER: A source of indirect discharge including, but not
limited to, a manufacturing or process facility, or other facility engaged in
the purchase or sale of goods, transaction or business or who otherwise renders
services to the public.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business process or from the development, recovery or
processing of natural resources.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: A combination of liquid and water carried industrial
waste discharged from any industrial user including the wastewater from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations,
or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
   B.   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city’s
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified
applicable federal statutes, regulations, or permits.
NPDES: The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit program under
section 402 of the act as administered by the IEPA.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any pretreatment standard
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties
which may be discharged to a POTW by industrial users in specific industrial
subcategories as established in regulations promulgated by the USEPA in 40
C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N. These standards shall be in addition to all
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements set forth in 40 C.F.R. part
403, state law, or this article.
NEW SOURCE:
   A.   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is
or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after
the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the
act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   B.   1.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsections A2 or A3 of this definition, but otherwise alters, replaces or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      2.   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         a.   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            (1)   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            (2)   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use, such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
NONREGULATED INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user that is not a “nonsignificant
industrial user” or “significant industrial user”, as defined in this section.
NONSIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I,
subchapter N, where the city has made a finding that such industrial user never
discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the general pretreatment standards)
and the following conditions are met:
   A.   The industrial user, prior to the city’s finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable national categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
   B.   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in 40 C.F.R. 403.12(q) together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
   C.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
O AND M: Operation and maintenance.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of the POTW’s NPDES
permit.
PERMITTED WASTE HAULER VEHICLE: A vehicle used for hauling wastewater which has
been granted a permit under the requirements of this article.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or any
other legal entity or its legal representative, agent or assigns.
pH: The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated by
taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentrations as
measured in accordance with standard methods.
POLLUTANT: Any substance discharged into a POTW or its collection system that
is regulated in this article, or any substance which, upon exposure to or
assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse effects such as cancer,
genetic mutations or physiological manifestations as defined in standards
issued pursuant to section 307(a) of the act.
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a general pretreatment standard or national
categorical pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial user.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works as defined by section
212 of the act, owned by the city. This definition includes any devices and
systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature that convey wastewater to the
POTW plant regardless of ownership, but does not include sewers, pipes and
other conveyances not connected to the city’s POTW treatment plant.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which is designed to carry sanitary and industrial
wastewater and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not
intentionally admitted.
SANITARY WASTEWATER: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
SEWAGE: Wastewater.
SEWER: Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to carry wastewater.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. part 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N; and
   B.   Any other industrial user that: discharges an average of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater);
contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or is designated as such by the control authority as defined in 40
C.F.R. part 403.12(a) on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403.8
(f)(6)).
SLUDGE: The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the wastewater
treatment processes.
SLUG: Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature including, but not limited
to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge, which has a
reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way
violate the city’s regulations or permit conditions.
STANDARD METHODS: The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition, at
the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and any other procedures recognized by the USEPA and the
IEPA.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the city wastewater treatment facility or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
TOTAL SOLIDS: The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Total suspended matter, expressed in milligrams
per liter, that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtration using a
glass fiber filter disc in accordance with standard methods.
TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS: The summation of all quantified values greater that one
hundredth milligram per liter (0.01 mg/l) for the toxic organics as specified
in the applicable regulation.
USEPA: United States environmental protection agency.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria set forth in 35 Illinois administrative code part 304 or water that
would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards set forth in 35
Illinois administrative code parts 302 and 303 and would not be benefitted by
discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
UPSET: An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An “upset” does
not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
USER: Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of wastewater
into the sewerage system.
WASTEWATER: The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes, including
polluted cooling water, from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants and institutions, together with such groundwater, surface water,
stormwater or other waters as may be present.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document or documents allowing discharge to
the POTW issued to a user by the POTW in accordance with the terms of this
article.
WASTEWATER HAULER: Any person engaged in transporting sanitary wastewater as a
commercial venture.
WATERS OF THE STATE: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state and any portion thereof.
(1989 Code § 11-166)
8-4B-2: COMPLIANCE WITH WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes to any sewer within the jurisdiction of the city and/or the POTW
without having first complied with the terms of this article and articles A and
C of this chapter and, where applicable, any pretreatment requirement or
pretreatment standard, including procedural and reporting requirements.
8-4B-3: REPORTS:
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports:
      1.   Report Required:
         a.   Existing Users: All users classified by the city as significant
or nonsignificant industrial users on July 1, 1985, shall complete and return
within one hundred eighty (180) days of such date a baseline monitoring report.
         b.   New Users: All applicants applying for sewer service after July
1, 1984 who, upon evaluation of their building sewer permit application, are
classified by the city as new sources, shall complete and return, at least
ninety (90) days prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer, a baseline
monitoring report in a form to be prescribed and furnished by the city. New
sources described in this subsection A1b shall provide estimates for all items
required in subsections A2, A4 and A5 of this section.
         c.   Upon promulgation of any national categorical pretreatment
standards in addition to those in the appendix, all users having discharges
regulated by such standards shall complete and return, within ninety (90) days,
a baseline monitoring report.
      2.   Contents Of Report: All baseline monitoring reports shall provide
the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owners.
         b.   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
         c.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production,
and standard industrial classification of the operation carried out by such
user. This description shall include a schematic process diagram indicating
points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.
         d.   Information showing the measured average daily flow and maximum
daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the following:
            (1)   Regulated process streams; and
            (2)   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set forth in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
         e.   The industrial user shall identify the general pretreatment
standards applicable to each regulated process and shall:
            (1)   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration of regulated pollutants in the indirect discharge from
each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average concentration shall be
reported. The sample shall be representative of daily operations.
            (2)   Where feasible, obtain samples through the flow proportional
composite sampling techniques specified in the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. Where composite sampling is not feasible, a grab sample
is acceptable.
            (3)   Take a minimum of one representative sample to compile the
data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection A2e. Sample
based on the flow of the sampled stream, as follows:
               (A)   Where the flow of the stream being sampled does not exceed
fifty thousand (50,000) gallons per day (gpd) the industrial user shall take a
minimum of three (3) samples within a two (2) week period.
               (B)   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is greater than
fifty thousand (50,000) gpd, the industrial user shall take a minimum of six
(6) samples within a two (2) week period.
            (4)   Take the samples immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, in order to evaluate compliance with general
pretreatment standards, the industrial user shall measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula set
forth in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e). Where an alternate concentration has been
calculated in accordance with such section, this adjusted limit, along with
supporting data, shall be submitted to the city.
            (5)   Perform sampling and analysis in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
part 136, as amended from time to time.
            (6)   Submit, only with city authorization, a baseline monitoring
report which utilizes only historical data, so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            (7)   Provide, for each report, the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis and certification that such sampling and
analysis are representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
            (8)   The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than
the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard.
            (9)   The industrial user shall provide a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether general pretreatment standards and national
categorical pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if
not, whether additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet the
national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements.
      3.   Changes In Wastewater: If the type, quality, or volume of wastewater
from the property of all industrial users, whether permitted or not, is
expected to change materially and substantially as reasonably determined by the
user or the city, the user shall give a thirty (30) day notice in writing to
the city and shall make application to the city prior to such change; provided,
that information previously submitted and unchanged need not be resubmitted by
the user. No user shall materially and substantially change the type, quality
or volume of its wastewater without the prior approval of the city.
      4.   Modification of Standards:
         a.   Where the user’s national categorical pretreatment standard has
been modified by a removal allowance pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.7, the combined
waste stream formula set for the in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e), or the net/gross
calculations set forth in 40 C.F.R. 403.15 at the time the user submits a
baseline report, the information required in this article shall apply to the
modified limits.
         b.   If the national categorical pretreatment standard for the
industrial user is modified after the baseline report is submitted, the
industrial user shall make any necessary amendments to information provided as
a response to the requirements of this article and submit them to the city
within sixty (60) days after the modified limit is approved.
      5.   Quarterly Reports: All significant industrial users and, when
directed by the city, any nonsignificant industrial users shall after the
compliance date of any applicable national categorical pretreatment standard
or, in the case of new sources, after discharge of wastewater to the POTW
begins, complete and submit to the city a quarterly self-monitoring report on
or before the thirtieth day of the month following the end of each quarter
(April, July, October, January). The city may in its discretion and in
consideration of such factors as a local high or low flow rate, holidays, and
budget cycles, agree to alter the months in which the quarterly reports are
submitted. The quarterly report shall be completed in a form to be prescribed
by the city and shall provide the following information:
         a.   The user’s name, address, location and the name of an authorized
representative.
         b.   The standard industrial classification (SIC) code.
         c.   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula set
forth in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
         d.   The nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by any applicable national categorical pretreatment standard, and
information on production rates in such circumstances.
      6.   Sample collection:
         a.   The superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional
sampling or through a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits.
         b.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
toxicity, sulfides, chromium hexavalent and volatile organic chemicals must be
obtained using grab collection techniques.
         c.   All sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
40 C.F.R. part 136.
         d.   Each report shall state the time, date, and place of sampling and
methods of analysis and certification that such sampling and analysis are
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
POTW.
         e.   The industrial user shall provide a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether national categorical pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet the
national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements.
      7.   Semiannual Reports: All users not subject to subsection A of this
section which are classified by the city as nonregulated industrial users on
July 1, 1985, and all future users that, upon evaluation of their building
sewer permit applications, are classified by the city as nonregulated
industrial users not subject to subsection A of this section, shall complete
and return to the city a report on or before the thirtieth day of June and
December on the forms prescribed and furnished by the city and which shall
provide the following information and any other information as the
superintendent may require:
         a.   The user’s name, address, location and the name of an authorized
representative.
         b.   A general description of facility processes and operation.
         c.   The standard industrial classification (SIC) code.
         d.   Wastewater flow, constituents and characteristics including, but
not limited to, those set forth in articles A and C of this chapter.
      8.   Resampling Requirements: An industrial user must notify the city
within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of a violation of this article,
repeat the sampling and analysis, and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to the city within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation
unless the resampling is performed by the city in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
403.12(g)(2) .
      9.   Report on Compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards: All
significant industrial users shall complete and submit to the city within
ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
national categorical pretreatment standards, or, in the case of a new source,
following commencement of the introduction of a regulated wastewater into the
POTW, a report containing the information contained in subsections A2d through
A2f of this section.
      10.   Sampling Procedures: All measurements, tests, and analyses to which
reference is made in this article shall be determined and performed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136, and amendments
thereto, or with any other test procedures approved by the administrator of the
USEPA. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutants in question, or where the administrator
determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed using validated analytical methods or any other sampling and
analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the city or the IEPA,
approved by the administrator.
   B.   Signatory Certification Requirements: All documents submitted by any
industrial user must be accompanied with this certification statement:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible
for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.
(1989 Code § 11-172)
8-4B-4: DISCHARGE LIMITS:
   A.   1.   Concentrations: Each separate discharge of an industrial user, as
measured under the provisions of this article, shall not contain in excess of
the following concentrations:
Pollutants Maximum Concentration (Mg/1)
Pollutants                  Maximum Concentration (Mg/1)
Arsenic                     1.0
Barium                      10.0
Boron                       5.0
Cadmium                     0.6
Chromium (hexavalent)       1. 0
Chromium (total hex. + tri) 4.0
Copper                      2.6
Cyanide                     1. 2
Iron                        10.0
Lead                        0.7
Manganese                   5.0
Mercury                     0.0005
Nickel                      4.0
Phenols                     1. 0
Selenium                    1. 25
Silver                      1. 2
Zinc                        5.0
 
      2.   National Standards: Upon the promulgation of the national
categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial user, such
standard, if more stringent than the limitations imposed under this article for
sources in that subcategory, shall, when effective, immediately supersede the
limitations and conditions imposed under this article. The city shall notify
all known affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40
C.F.R. section 403.12 and shall include such standard in the appendix.
   B.   Substitute For Treatment: No industrial user shall increase the use of
process water or in any way attempt to dilute an indirect discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate pretreatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards, subsection Cl of this section, or in any other pollutant specific
limitations developed by the city.
   C.   General Sewer Use: Notwithstanding other provisions of this article,
all industrial users shall comply with the limitations set forth in section
8-4A-7 and article C of this chapter.
8-4B-5: MONITORING:
   A.   Facility Required: All industrial users shall provide and operate at
the industrial user’s own expense a monitoring facility to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of each indirect discharge to the POTW. Each
monitoring facility shall be situated on the industrial user’s premises, except
where such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user.
The city may allow construction of the monitoring in the public street or
sidewalk area; provided, that the facility is located so that it will not be
obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be ample room in or
near such sampling facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of
samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the industrial user. In addition to a monitoring facility for the total
wastewater discharged to the city, all industrial users shall provide a
monitoring facility to allow inspection, monitoring and flow measurement of the
wastewater discharged from each process regulated by national categorical
pretreatment standards. All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within one hundred twenty (120)
days of receipt of a notice from the city to construct.
   B.   Manholes and Sampling Chambers: Whenever required by a wastewater
discharge permit, any industrial user shall install a large manhole or sampling
chamber for each separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the city, installed and maintained at all
times at the user’s expense, which shall have ample room in each sampling
chamber to permit the city to take accurate composite samples for analysis. The
chamber shall be safely, easily and independently accessible to authorized
representatives of the city at any time.
   C.   The sampling chamber, metering device, and documentation of the
frequency of sampling, sampling methods and analyses of samples shall be
subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection and verification by the city.
   D.   Where required by the city, additional control manholes or sampling
chambers shall be provided at the end of each industrial process within an
industrial user’s facility suitable for the determination of compliance with
pretreatment standards.
   E.   Inspections: The city may inspect the facilities of all industrial
users to ascertain whether the purposes of this article are being met and if
there is compliance with all requirements of this article. Persons or occupants
of premises in which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in
which records are kept shall allow the city or its representative ready access
upon presentation of credentials at reasonable times to all parts of such
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying
of records required to be kept by this article, and in the performance of any
of their duties. The city shall have the right to set up on the industrial
user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, monitoring
and metering operations. Where an industrial user has security measures in
force which would require suitable identification, necessary arrangements shall
be made with its security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city shall be permitted to enter immediately
for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Such
arrangements shall be made by all industrial users with their security guards
within thirty (30) days of the effective date hereof.
   F.   The city may randomly sample and analyze the effluent from any
industrial user and conduct such other monitoring activities as to identify
occasional and continuing noncompliance with the general pretreatment standards
and this article. The city shall inspect and sample effluent from each
significant industrial user at least once a year, except as otherwise provided
in 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(2)(v).
   G.   Whenever required by a wastewater discharge permit, the permittee shall
pay the costs of sampling of its discharge and the costs of analyses of its
samples, whether or not the sampling and analyses are done by the permittee or
by the city.
8-4B-6: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Evaluation of Reports: The city shall evaluate each report furnished by
each user pursuant to section
8-4B-3 of this article and may require additional information. Within thirty
(30) days after full evaluation, the city shall notify the user of the city’s
acceptance thereof. If, upon evaluation, the city finds the user’s discharge in
noncompliance with any part of this article, the superintendent shall require
pretreatment to bring the wastewater into compliance.
   B.   Compliance Schedule: Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and
maintenance activities will be required to comply with applicable national
categorical pretreatment standards and/or this article, the user shall provide
a declaration of the shortest compliance schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional
operational and maintenance equipment. Any industrial user’s pretreatment
facility that needs to be installed must first submit to the IEPA an
application for a construction permit for the new facility ninety (90) days
prior to construction.
   C.   The compliance schedule shall contain milestone dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to comply with the
requirements of this article including, but not limited to, dates relating to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for major components,
commencing construction, completing construction, and all other acts necessary
to achieve compliance with this article.
   D.   Under no circumstance shall the city allow a time increment between
such major events which exceeds nine (9) months.
   E.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each milestone date in the
compliance schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a
progress report to the city, including no less than a statement as to whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone
date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the user to return
the construction to the approved compliance schedule. In no event shall more
than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the city.
8-4B-7: SPILL CONTAINMENT:
   A.   Slug Control Plan: The city has the authority to require significant
industrial users to develop a slug control plan.
   B.   Accidental Discharge: Each industrial user shall provide protection
from accidental discharge to the POTW of prohibited or regulated materials or
substances, as provided by this article and articles A and C of this chapter.
Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the industrial user’s cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the city for review and shall be approved
by the city before construction of the facility commences. No industrial user
shall discharge into the system until a slug control plan or accidental
discharge protection procedures have been approved by the city. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures by the city shall not relieve
the industrial user from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary
to meet the requirements of this article.
   C.   Slug Loading:
      1.   Ten (10) pounds or more heavy metals (including arsenic, cadmium,
chromium, copper, lead, mercury, nickel, silver, zinc and cyanide) in solution.
      2.   One gallon or more of any toxic organic substances listed in this
article (which includes 46 base/neutral extractibles, 10 acid extractibles, 28
volatile organics and 25 pesticides).
      3.   All flammable liquids above one (1) gallon.
      4.   Sixty (60) gallons or more of acidic solution (defined as pH less
than 5.0).
      5.   Any other liquid material determined to have adverse effects on the
sewerage system and wastewater treatment plants (including alkalies or alkaline
substances, oils, foams generating wastes, highly colored wastes, pesticides
and solvents not listed previously).
      6.   Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge.
   D.   Notice Of Violation: Industrial users shall notify the city immediately
in the case of an accidental or deliberate discharge of substances prohibited
by this article and articles A and C of this chapter, any slug discharge, or
discharge of any substance or pollutant which may cause interference at the
POTW, or will pass through the POTW, or violate requirements of this article.
It shall be the responsibility of the industrial user to telephone the city
immediately and notify them of the incident. The notification shall include the
name of the caller, the location and time of discharge, the type of wastewater,
the concentration and volume. The telephone notification shall be followed up
by a written account no more than five (5) days thereafter and shall include
the location of the discharge, the type of waste, the concentration and volume,
and the duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and if the noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to occur, and the measures to be taken by the user to
prevent similar future occurrences. Follow up reports may be required by the
city as needed. Such report or reports shall not relieve the industrial user of
any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result
of the damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to property; nor
shall such report relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this article or otherwise. A documented and
verified bona fide upset shall be an affirmative defense to any enforcement
action brought by the city against an industrial user for noncompliance with
national categorical pretreatment standards which arises out of violations
alleged to have occurred during the period of upset, provided all the other
requirements this subsection D are met. An industrial user who wishes to
establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through properly
signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the specific
cause of the upset;
      2.   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      3.   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
city immediately after becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission shall be provided within five (5) days):
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance.
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue.
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Control Of Discharges: The industrial user shall control production of
all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with all
applicable regulations upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment
facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment
is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among other
things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost
or fails.
   F.   Signs; Emergency Notification: Signs shall be permanently posted in
appropriate locations on the industrial user’s premises advising employees whom
to call in the event of a slug or accidental discharge. Employers shall
instruct all employees who may cause or discover such a discharge with respect
to emergency notification procedure.
8-4B-8: HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE:
   A.   The industrial user shall notify the city, the USEPA regional waste
management division director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the USEPA hazardous waste number and
the type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the industrial user
discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar
month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the industrial user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained
in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of
the mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during
the following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof. Industrial users who
commence discharging after the effective date hereof shall provide the
notification no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge of
the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification under this
subsection A need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged.
However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted under 40 C.F.R.
403.12(j). The notification requirement in this subsection A does not apply to
pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of 40 C.F.R.
403.12(b), (d) and (e).
   B.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection A of this
section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more
than fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month,
or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30
(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one time notification. Subsequent months during
which the industrial user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous
waste do not require additional notification.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the EPA regional waste management waste division director and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the industrial
user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and
toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
(1989 Code § 11-170)
8-4B-9: WASTEWATER HAULERS:
   A.   Wastewater haulers shall discharge all sanitary wastes at the
designated wastewater hauler dumping station.
   B.   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler discharge
permit before discharging wastes at the designated wastewater hauler dumping
station. Each permitted wastewater hauling vehicle shall prominently display a
number issued by the city on both doors of the vehicle cab. Such numbers shall
be removable only by destruction. Decals for this purpose shall be provided by
the city to each wastewater hauler.
   C.   Each wastewater hauling vehicle shall meet the following conditions
before permits will be issued under section
8-4B-10 of this article:
   D.   Until the city provides scales for weighing wastewater hauling
vehicles, each truck tank shall have a sight glass calibrated in one hundred
(100) gallon increments.
   E.   Each vehicle shall be equipped to use the quick disconnect couplers at
the wastewater hauler dumping station.
   F.   Representative samples of wastewater from both nonindustrial users and
industrial users discharged by a wastewater hauler shall comply with the
provisions of this article.
   G.   Each load delivered to the wastewater dumping station shall have a
wastewater hauler manifest properly filled out by the scale operator on duty
and signed by the wastewater hauler.
   H.   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliness and for general
sanitary operation on the POTW property as prescribed by the city shall be
strictly adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewater to the
designated wastewater hauler dumping station.
   I.   The source or sources of all liquid wastes being hauled to the POTW
treatment plant shall be properly documented using the city manifest system.
   J.   Wastewater from a nonindustrial user shall not be mixed with wastewater
from an industrial user. Vehicles hauling wastewater from a nonindustrial user
for disposal at the POTW and recreational vehicles seeking to dispose of
wastewater generated from use of waste facilities within such recreational
vehicle, shall dispose of wastewater only at either of two designated
nonindustrial wastewater dumping stations within the city and shall pay the
fees for such dumping as set forth in the city fee schedule.
   K.   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this article, failure of a wastewater hauler to comply with the provisions of
this section shall be grounds for revocation of the hauler’s discharge permit
by the city.
   L.   A one-time sanitary waste dumping permit shall be seventy dollars
($70.00), and an annual unlimited permit running from April 1 to March 31 each
year shall be fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
(1989 Code § 11-171) (O-21-007, 3-15-2001)
8-4B-10: DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any industrial user to discharge wastewater
to the POTW without a permit, or contrary to the conditions of a permit, issued
by the city in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      2.   All industrial users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. All industrial users which are existing sources
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge
permit. All industrial users which become industrial users after the
promulgation of such review shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Industrial users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall complete and file with the city clerk. an application in a form to be
prescribed and furnished by the city, and accompanied by the applicable permit
fee.
      2.   Proposed industrial users which are new sources shall apply at least
ninety (90) days prior to discharging to the POTW.
      3.   In support of the application, the industrial user shall submit, in
units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         a.   Name, address and location.
         b.   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended.
         c.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those set forth in this article as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. part 136.
         d.   Time and duration of discharge.
         e.   Average and maximum wastewater flow rates, including monthly and
seasonable variations, if any.
         f.   Site plans showing all pipe sizes, manholes and location of
sanitary and storm sewers leaving the building or premises, together with all
connections to lateral sanitary and storm sewers.
         g.   Total number of employees and hours of operation of a plant.
         h.   Proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system and
the name of the IEPA certified pretreatment operator.
         i.   Name of the authorized representative of the industrial user.
         j.   The industrial user’s source of intake water, together with the
types of usage and disposal sources of water and the estimated volumes in each
category.
         k.   If additional industrial user operation and maintenance or
pretreatment techniques or installations will be required to meet pretreatment
standards, the shortest schedule by which the industrial user will provide such
additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established under this article.
         l.   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
(1989 Code § 11-172)
   C.   Permit Fee: Each permit application hereunder shall be accompanied by a
fee as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 11-172; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Contents Of Permit: Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this article and all other applicable regulations,
user charges, and fees established by the POTW. Wastewater discharge permits
shall contain the following:
      1.   The limits on daily maximum and average pollutant concentrations
from the applicable pretreatment standard (which includes federal, state and
local limits), whichever is more stringent.
      2.   Limits on maximum and average flow rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization for each separate discharge
of a user.
      3.   Requirements for installation and operation of inspection, sampling
and monitoring facilities.
      4.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule.
      5.   Compliance schedule, if necessary.
      6.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      7.   Requirements to retain for a minimum of three (3) years any records
of monitoring activities and results relating to wastewater discharge and for
affording the POTW access to such records.
      8.   Requirements for advance notification to the city of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system pursuant to the terms of this article.
      9.   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as defined in this
article.
      10.   Requirements for reporting pretreatment sludge disposal practices.
      11.   Requirements that the permittee allow the city or its
representatives ready access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable
times to all parts of its premises in which a discharge source or treatment
system is located or in which records required by this article are kept for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying of such records
and for the performance of any of their duties.
      12.   Requirements that the permittee provide other information to the
POTW from time to time as may reasonably be required.
      13.   A statement of duration, a statement of nontransferability, and a
statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties.
      14.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this article and pretreatment requirements and standards.
   E.   Changes In Wastewater: If the type, quality or volume of wastewater
from all users is expected to materially and substantially change as reasonably
determined by the city, the permittee previously granted such permit shall give
a ninety (90) day notice in writing to the city and shall make a new
application to the city prior to such change in the same manner and form as
originally made; provided, that information previously submitted and unchanged
need not be resubmitted by the permittee. No permittee shall materially and
substantially change the type, quality or volume of its wastewater beyond that
allowed by its permit without prior approval of the city.
   F.   Duration Of Permit; Renewal: Wastewater discharge permits shall be
issued for a specified time period not to exceed five (5) years. The permittee
shall file an application for renewal of its permit and submit the renewal fee
as set forth in the city fee schedule at least ninety (90) days prior to
expiration of the user’s permit. The industrial user shall apply, on a form
provided by the city, for reissuance of the permit.
   G.   Modifications To Permit: The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification by the city during the term of the permit as limitation
or requirements as identified in this article are modified or other just cause
exists. Where the national categorical or general pretreatment standards are
modified by a removal allowance (40 C.F.R. section 403.7) or the combined waste
stream formula (40 C.F.R. section 403.6(e)) or net/gross calculations (40
C.F.R. section 403.15) or fundamentally different factor variance for nontoxics
(40 C.F.R. section 403.13) of the general pretreatment regulations, the limits
as modified shall be made a part of the wastewater discharge permit and shall
be adjusted consistent with the USEPA guidelines and regulations. The
industrial user shall be informed of any proposed changes in its permit at
least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of change. Where any changes
are made in the industrial user’s permit, a reasonable time shall be given to
achieve compliance.
   H.   Transfer Of Permit: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific industrial user for the process activity specified in the permit. A
wastewater discharge permit shall not be assigned, transferred or sold to a new
owner or new user in different premises or to a new or changed operation in the
same or different premises without the approval of the city. If the premises is
sold or otherwise transferred by the permittee to a new owner who will maintain
the operation in the same premises, then the permit held by the seller shall be
reissued by the city to the new owner as a temporary permit; provided that the
new owner shall immediately apply for a new permit in accordance with this
article; and further provided that the temporary permit shall only be effective
for ninety (90) days after the date of sale or transfer. The city shall have
the same remedies for violation of temporary permits as it has for violation of
other discharge permits.
   I.   Denial Of Permit; Review:
      1.   No wastewater discharge permit shall be issued by the city to any
person or industrial user whose discharge of material to sewers, whether shown
upon his or her application or determined after inspection and testing
conducted by the city, is not in conformity with general pretreatment standards
or this article, or whose discharge would cause the city to lose its NPDES
permit, or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with the
requirements of this article. The city shall state the reason or reasons for
denial in writing, which shall be mailed or personally delivered to the
applicant within ten (10) days after denial.
      2.   If the application is denied by the city, the applicant may obtain
review of the denial by the city council; provided that the applicant shall
give written notice of this request to the superintendent or his or her
designee within thirty (30) days after receipt of such denial. The city council
shall review the permit application, the written denial and such other evidence
and matters as the applicant and city shall present. The decision of the
council shall be final.
8-4B-11: RECORDS RETENTION:
   A.   All users subject to this article shall retain and preserve, for no
less than three (3) years, any record books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence, and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a user in connection
with its discharge, or any other records resulting from any monitoring
activities required by this article. Such records shall be available for
inspection by the city, the IEPA, or the USEPA. All records which pertain to
matters which are the subject of an order or any other enforcement or
litigation activities brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained and
preserved by the user until all enforcement activities have concluded and all
periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
   B.   The city and any industrial user subject to the reporting requirements
established in this section shall maintain records of all information resulting
from any monitoring activities required by this article. Such records shall
include, for all samples:
      1.   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and the names of
the person or persons taking the samples.
      2.   The dates analyses were performed.
      3.   Who performed the analyses.
      4.   The analytical techniques methods used.
      5.   The results of such analyses.
(1989 Code § 11-173)
8-4B-12: PUBLIC INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   Information and data relating to an industrial user and obtained by the
city from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits, monitoring
programs or inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agency without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information of the user.
   B.   When requested by an industrial user furnishing a report, the portions
of a report which may disclose trade secrets or proprietary information shall
not be made available for inspection by the public, except as may be required
by the Illinois freedom of information act, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this article, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system permit, state disposal system
permit and/or the pretreatment program; however, such portions of a report
shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review
or enforcement proceedings involving the industrial user furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as
confidential information.
(1989 Code § 11-174)
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, information data provided to the city
which is effluent data shall be available to the public without restriction.
8-4B-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Public Notice Of Violators: The city shall publish annually, in the
largest daily newspaper published in the city, a list of the industrial users
which, during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term
“significant noncompliance” shall mean:
      1.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit
for the same pollutant parameter by any amount.
      2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH) .
      3.   Any other discharge violation that the city believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of city personnel or the general public).
      4.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the city’s exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance.
      6.   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules.
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      8.   Any other violation(s) which the city determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   B.   Compliance Meeting: Should a violation of this article by an industrial
user occur, the city shall notify the offending user, in writing, through a
“notice of violation” as to particulars of such violation or violations and set
a time and place for a meeting (called in this section a “compliance meeting”)
to be attended by representatives of the city and the industrial user. The
purpose of such a meeting shall be to establish such procedures,
investigations, studies and compliance measures as the city deems necessary and
desirable to control and prevent violations of this article. The industrial
user shall cooperate fully with the city in making such investigations and
studies.
   C.   Compliance Directive:
      1.   Following the completion of any procedures, investigations or
studies as described in subsection B of this section, the city may issue a
compliance directive directing and requiring the user to take such action as
may be required to control and prevent violations of this article.
      2.   If the city has sufficient information at the time of the compliance
meeting to determine necessary and desirable compliance measures, it may, at
the time of the compliance meeting, issue a compliance directive requiring the
user to take such action, including pretreatment, without further investigation
or study.
      3.   Failure to comply with the compliance directive of the city shall be
deemed a violation of the provisions of this article and may be grounds for
termination of the user’s wastewater service and grounds for such other actions
as may be authorized for a violation of this article.
   D.   Violations: Any industrial user who violates this article is subject to
termination of sewer service in accordance with the procedures of this section.
In addition to conditions stated elsewhere in this article, the following
constitute violations of this article:
      1.   Failure of an industrial user to report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge factually as determined by the industrial
user’s or city’s analysis;
      2.   Failure of the industrial user to report significant changes in
process activity or wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the industrial user’s premises by
city representatives for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
      4.   Tampering with, disrupting, or destroying city equipment;
      5.   Failure to report an accidental discharge of a pollutant;
      6.   Failure to report an upset of the industrial user’s pretreatment
facilities; or
      7.   A discharge which presents or may present an endangerment to the
environment or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW.
   E.   Termination Of Service: The city may, upon discovering an ongoing or
potential discharge to the city POTW which presents or may present a danger to
the environment or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW,
immediately issue an order to the discharger to show cause before the city
council why the city should not terminate service. Additionally, the
superintendent may order an industrial user who causes or allows any action
which is subject to termination of service under subsection D of this section
to show cause before the city council why its service should not be terminated.
A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing
to be held by the council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action
is to be taken, the proposed action, and directing the industrial user to show
cause before the council why its service should not be terminated. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   F.   Hearing Order; Compliance:
      1.   The city council may conduct the hearing and take the evidence or
may designate any of its members or its attorney to:
         a.   Issue in the name of the council notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearing.
         b.   Take the evidence.
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations, to the city
council for action thereon.
         d.   At any hearing held pursuant to this article, testimony taken
shall be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded,
shall be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing
upon payment of the usual copying charges therefor.
         e.   After the city council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the industrial user responsible for the discharge directing:
            (1)   That the service be terminated;
            (2)   That, following a specified time, the sewer service shall be
terminated unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances have been installed and operated properly to comply with this
article and any compliance directives or orders;
            (3)   That the industrial user cease the authorized discharge
effective after a specified period of time; or
            (4)   That such other relief as deemed necessary by the council to
abate the discharge be granted.
      2.   Further orders and directives as are necessary may be issued.
Following an order of service termination, the industrial user shall cease
discharging to the city POTW. Failure to do so shall be evidence of continuing
harm to the city and shall provide grounds for the granting of injunctive
relief or temporary restraining orders.
   G.   Immediate Stopping Of Discharges: Notwithstanding anything in this
section to the contrary, the superintendent shall have the authority, after
informal notice to the industrial user, immediately and effectively, to halt or
prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW that reasonably appears to
present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. When the
superintendent determines that such an emergency situation exists, he or she
shall issue a verbal order (followed immediately by a written order) to the
industrial user stating the problem and requiring immediate cessation of the
discharge. The superintendent’s actions may include disconnection of wastewater
collection service. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be
limited to, any of the following: personal conversation or telephone calls
between the industrial user and city employees; letters sent by first class
mail; hand delivered messages; or notices posted at the industrial user’s
premises or point of discharge.
   H.   Compliance With Provisions; Failure To Comply: Any user notified of a
termination of wastewater treatment service under subsection F or G of this
section shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a
failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the termination order, the city
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or danger to
any individuals. The superintendent shall reinstate the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge and
reapplication for sewer service in accordance with articles A and C of this
chapter.
   I.   Civil Action: The city may seek from the circuit court injunctive
relief to prohibit an industrial user from discharging into the POTW in
violation of this chapter, to enforce any of the provisions of this article, or
to provide such other affirmative relief as may be appropriate, in addition to
or in lieu of the foregoing, the city may, upon discovering an ongoing or
potential discharge of pollutants to the city POTW which reasonably appears to
present an imminent danger to the health or welfare of persons, seek from the
circuit court a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction to halt
or prohibit such discharge. Prior to the filing of such petition, the
industrial user shall be given informal notice of the city’s intention to file
such action. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to,
any of the following: personal conversation or telephone calls between the user
and city employees; letters sent by first class mail; hand delivered messages;
or notices posted at the discharger’s premises or point of discharge.
   J.   Additional Remedies: Additional remedies shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this article, if the city is fined by the state or the USEPA for a violation of
the city NPDES permit or a violation of water quality standards as the result
of a discharge of pollutants, then the fine, including all city legal,
sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs, shall be
charged to the responsible industrial user. Such charge shall be in addition
to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies the city may have under this
article, statutes and regulations, at law or in equity.
      2.   If the discharge from any industrial user causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any of the city wastewater facilities, the
superintendent shall cause the deposit or obstruction to be repaired promptly.
The cost of such work, including materials, labor, and supervision, shall be
borne by the person causing such deposit, obstruction or damage.
      3.   The remedies provided in this article shall not be exclusive, and
the city may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statute, at law or
in equity against any person violating the provisions of this article.
8-4B-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the city or who has
failed to comply with any provision of this article and the regulations or
rules of the “City Of Princeton Industrial Program Enforcement Response Guide”
or orders of any court of competent jurisdiction may be subjected to the
imposition of a civil penalty of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
per violation. For the purpose of this section, each day in which any such
violation shall occur shall be deemed a separate violation, and a separate
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each constituent which has
limitations listed in subsection
8-4B-4 of this article found to exceed the limits established in this article
during such day. In addition to the penalties provided in this section, the
city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this article or the orders, rules and regulations issued
hereunder.
   B.   Any user violating any of the provisions of this article, or who
discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the city’s wastewater disposal system, shall be liable to
the city for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge.
The city shall bill the user for the costs incurred by the city for any
cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation or discharge.
Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this article
enforceable under the provisions of section
8-4B-13.
   C.   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this article, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this article, shall be subject to the penalties and costs
provided in this.
(1989 Code § 11-167)
8-4B-15: AMENDMENTS:
The city reserves the right to amend this article in order to assure compliance
by the city with applicable laws and regulations. Within nine (9) months of the
promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, this article
shall be amended to require compliance by users with such standards within the
time frame prescribed by such standards. All national categorical pretreatment
standards adopted after the promulgation of this article shall be adopted by
the city as part of this article. All industrial users shall be informed of any
proposed changes in this article at least thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in this article shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(1989 Code § 11-169)
ARTICLE 4C: WASTEWATER RATES AND CHARGES
DIVISION C1: USER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
8-4C1-1: Exemptions From Sewer Rental Charge
8-4C1-2: Basis For Wastewater Service Charge
8-4C1-3: Measurement Of Flow
8-4C1-4: Rates And Charges Established
8-4C1-5: Computation Of Rates And Charges
8-4C1-6: Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies
8-4C1-7: Review And Revision Of Wastewater Service Charge
8-4C1-8: Notice Of Rates
8-4C1-9: Revenues
8-4C1-10: Accounting
8-4C1-11: Access To Records
8-4C1-1: EXEMPTIONS FROM SEWER RENTAL CHARGE:
No sewer rental charge shall be made to any consumer of water who shall show to
the satisfaction of the city council that no portion of the water so consumed
enters the sanitary sewer system of the city.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-2: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge for the use and service supplied by the
wastewater treatment facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge
and a surcharge, if applicable.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-3: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one gallon.
   B.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
systems, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the
person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water
consumption records.
   D.   Metering services for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person discharging wastes into the
public sewers. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be
removed without the consent of the city, unless the service is canceled by the
user.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-4: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge shall be established at such
time as a debt is incurred by the city for the purpose of acquiring,
construction, extending, or improving the city sewer system.
   B.   Basic User Rate; City Water Users:
      1.   There is hereby established for users of the city water system a
monthly basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater treatment facilities of the city in the amount of five dollars
($5.00) per one hundred (100) cubic feet of water usage.
      2.   The same rates will apply to users both inside and outside the city
limits.
   C.   Not Users Of City Water:
      1.   Users of the wastewater treatment facilities of the city who are not
users of the city water system shall be charged twenty eight dollars ($28.00)
per month.
      2.   The same rates will apply to users both inside and outside the city
limits.
   D.   Surcharge Rates: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be
calculated and charted as set forth in section 8-4C1-5C of this article.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-5: COMPUTATION OF RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall not exceed an amount
computed by dividing the annual payment on the debt service of all outstanding
bonds and loans by the number of users. The resulting figure will be divided by
twelve (12) to determine the monthly debt service charge.
   B.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having, as normal
concentrations, a five (5) day, twenty degree Celsius (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and a suspended
solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l). It
shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement, and shall
be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
      2.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
      3.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
      4.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial users
by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
      5.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
      6.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per
milligram per liter in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   C.   Surcharge:
      1.   The surcharge rate shall be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal concentrations for BOD and SS. The surcharge rate shall be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes
which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and two hundred
fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS,
respectively.
      2.   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the city and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
      3.   Table A shall be used to establish the maximum concentration
pollutants that may be discharged. The cost per milligram per liter per one
thousand (1,000) gallons for any of the pollutants whose concentrations exceed
the values listed below under column 2 shall be set forth in column 3:
Table A
Pollutants Maximum Concentration Of User Discharge Cost Per Mg/l/1,000 Gallons
           Permitted (Mg/l)
Table A
                       Maximum Concentration Of
Pollutants             User Discharge Permitted  Cost Per Mg/l/1,000 Gallons
                       (Mg/l)
Arsenic                1.0                       $0.07
Barium                 10.0                      0.20
Boron                  5.0                       0.19
Cadmium                0.6                       0.07
Chromium (hexavalent)  1.0                       2.50
Chromium (total hex. + 4.0                       0.60
tri)
Copper                 2.6                       0.08
Cyanide                1.2                       0.05
Iron                   10.0                      0.08
Lead                   0.7                       1.00
Manganese              5.0                       0.01
Mercury                0.0005                    2.00
Nickel                 4.0                       0.35
Phenols                1.0                       0.08
Selenium               1.25                      0.08
Silver                 1.2
Zinc                   5.0                       0.25
 
      4.   Table B shall be used to establish the charges for the treatment of
BOD and suspended solids in excess of the volume of these pollutants found in
domestic wastes.
 
Table B
                 Volumes Found In Domestic Wastes (Mg/l) Costs Per Pound
BOD              200                                     $0.060
Suspended solids 250                                     $0.076
 
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-6: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Billing and payment for sewer services provided pursuant to this
article shall follow the billing procedures set forth in section
8-1-2 of this title. All bills for sewer service shall be paid in the city
clerk’s office at the city hall.
   B.   Bill Information: All bills shall state the following: appropriate
meter information; gallons or cubic feet of water metered; the amount of the
current bill; the amount of the balance unpaid; and the present amount due.
   C.   Disconnection Of Service: Bills not paid within thirty (30) days after
the due date become delinquent, and the city may disconnect water services as
provided in section
8-1-2D of this title. The notice to disconnect service shall be served by
personal service or by certified or registered mail, and shall contain:
      1.   The name, address and account number of the customer and the name
and address of the user if it is not the same as the customer, insofar as is
known.
      2.   The date of the notice.
      3.   The department’s policy to disconnect five (5) days after the
receipt of notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays , and
also the earliest date upon which disconnection may occur.
      4.   The total amount required by the disconnection date in order to
bring the account current.
      5.   A clear, concise statement of the reason for disconnection,
including the period of consumption for which there has been no payment, if
notice of disconnection is for nonpayment.
      6.   A statement that service will not be terminated if:
         a.   Prior to the disconnect date, the customer or use submits to the
water department a written request for a hearing as provided in section
8-3-3 of this title.
         b.   A statement that if the customer has not contacted the city clerk
to avail himself or herself of the rights stated in this subsection within the
five (5) day disconnection period, the disconnection of service shall proceed
on or after the date in subsection C3 of this section.
(1989 Code § 11-138)
   D.   Reconnection Of Service: Any consumer whose service has been
disconnected for nonpayment may have the service turned on again by paying all
arrears and a fee as provided in the city fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 11-138; amd. 2017 Code)
8-4C1-7: REVIEW AND REVISION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change
in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs, including
replacement costs.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C1-8: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this article, properly certified by the city treasurer, shall be
filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of the city
on their properties.
(1989 Code § 11-145)
8-4C1-9: REVENUES:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage system shall
be deposited in an account designated as the “sewerage fund of the city.” All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and apart
from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the city. All of such sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered
to the city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same or
at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
city council. The treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statute.
(1989 Code § 11-143)
8-4C1-10: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show the total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   The number of users connected to the system.
      5.   The number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and the volume of waste discharged.
(1989 Code § 11-144)
8-4C1-11: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The state environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city system of user charges or industrial cost recovery
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general
conditions to any state grant.
(1989 Code § 11-146)
DIVISION C2: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
Section
8-4C2-1: Industrial Cost Recovery Required
8-4C2-2: Determination Of Industrial Population Equivalent
8-4C2-3: Determination Of Costs
8-4C2-4: Charge For Recovery
8-4C2-5: Recovery Period
8-4C2-6: Payments And Billing; Delinquencies
8-4C2-7: Initial Payment
8-4C2-8: Adjustments Of Charges
8-4C2-9: No Charge For Unused Or Reserved Capacity
8-4C2-10: Commitment For Increased Use
8-4C2-11: Disposition And Investment Of Revenues
8-4C2-12: Responsibilities Of City Officials
8-4C2-13: Monitoring User Discharges Required
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see section
8-4A-1 of this chapter
   Penalty, see section
8-4A-9 of this chapter
8-4C2-1: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVER REQUIRED:
Each industrial user shall pay that portion of any state grant which has been
obtained by the city for the financing of the construction of wastewater
treatment works allocable to the treatment of the wastewater from such user.
Such users shall not include an interest component.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-2: DETERMINATION OF INDUSTRIAL POPULATION EQUIVALENT:
An industrial user’s portion of any state grant shall be based on the
population equivalents attributable to wastewater of such user tributary to the
wastewater treatment works of the city. The population equivalents shall be
determined as follows:
   A.   Volume Population Equivalent: The volume population equivalent equals
the average daily rate of water consumption as determined by the consumption
records of the past year, divided by one hundred (100) gallons per day (the
average domestic water consumption).
   B.   BOD Population Equivalent: The BOD population equivalent equals the
average daily pounds of BOD in the wastewater as determined by the city,
divided by one hundred fifty six (156) pounds of BOD per day (the average per
capita BOD of nonindustrial discharges).
   C.   SS Population Equivalent: The SS population equivalent equals the
average daily pounds of suspended solids in the wastewater from such user as
determined by the city, divided by one hundred thirty three (133) pounds of
suspended solids per day (the average per capita SS of nonindustrial
discharges).
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-3: DETERMINATION OF COSTS:
   A.   Cost Per Capita: The dollar cost per capita shall be determined as
follows: total amount of grant, divided by total population, equals cost per
capita.
   B.   Cost For Industrial User: The cost to be recovered from an industrial
user shall be determined as follows: volume population equivalent, plus BOD
population equivalent, plus SS population equivalent, equals population
equivalent. Cost per capita, multiplied times population equivalent, equals
cost for industrial user.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-4: CHARGE FOR COST RECOVERY:
Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial user of
the treatment works shall pay the cost recovery amount determined by subsection
8-4C2-3B of this article for such industry, divided by the recovery period.
Where an industry is connected to a public sewer after the startup of the
facilities constructed under a state grant, the industry shall pay its portion
of the state grant for each quarter remaining in the recovery period. The
industry will not be required to pay for those quarters of the recovery period
prior to connection to a public sewer.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-5: RECOVERY PERIOD:
The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to the useful life of the
treatment works which shall be twenty (20) years from 1978, not to exceed
thirty (30) years.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-6: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Due Date; Late Payment Penalty: For the purpose of industrial cost
recovery, the year shall be divided into quarterly periods, to begin on July 1,
October 1, January 1 and March 1. All industrial users of the city shall pay
the cost as determined by section 8-4C2-4 of this article for industrial cost
recovery. Such payments shall be made quarterly on the fifteenth day of the
month immediately following the expiration of the quarterly period for which
service has been supplied, and such charge shall be payable within thirty (30)
days after rendition thereof. If such bills are not paid within such thirty
(30) days, a service charge of ten percent (10%) shall be added thereto.
   B.   Lien Provisions; Disconnection Of Service: If the charges for
industrial cost recovery are not paid within sixty (60) days after the
rendition of that bill, then such service charges shall be deemed and are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter, such delinquent charge shall
constitute a lien upon real estate for which such sewer services were supplied.
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed each quarter to file sworn
statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the county recorder of
deeds, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice of a lien for
the payment of such charges for sewer service. If the delinquency in the
payment of the recovery cost continues for a period of more than thirty (30)
days, the sewer service shall be discontinued.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-7: INITIAL PAYMENT:
The initial payment made by an industrial user which is connected to a public
sewer after the startup of the treatment works constructed with a state grant
shall be made by the next scheduled due date as defined in subsection 8-4C2-6A
of this article and shall be equal to one-fourth (1/4) of the amount as
determined by section 8-4C2-4 of this article.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-8: ADJUSTMENTS OF CHARGES:
   A.   Strength Of Volume Changes: If there is a change in the strength and/or
volume introduced into the treatment works by an industrial user, as determined
by the previous year’s records, the city shall adjust the user’s portion of any
state grant accordingly.
   B.   Plant Improvement Utilizing State Grant Funds: If there is an expansion
or upgrading of the treatment works utilizing a state grant, each existing
industrial user’s share shall be adjusted accordingly.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-9: NO CHARGE FOR UNUSED OR RESERVED CAPACITY:
An industrial user’s portion of any state grant shall not include any portion
of the grant amount allocable to unused or reserved capacity.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-10: COMMITMENT FOR INCREASED USE:
An industrial user’s portion of any state grant shall include allowance for the
cost of any firm commitment to the city for an increased use by such user.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-11: DISPOSITION AND INVESTMENT OF REVENUES:
   A.   The city shall retain fifty percent (50%) of the amounts recovered from
industrial users. The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon,
shall be returned to the state antipollution fund on an annual basis.
   B.   Eighty percent (80%) of the retained amounts, together with interest
earned thereon, shall be used solely for the eligible costs of the expansion or
reconstruction of treatment works associated with the project and necessary to
meet the requirements of the act and the state. The city, prior to commitment
of the retained amounts, shall obtain written approval of the state
environmental protection agency for any expansion or reconstruction. The
remainder of the retained amounts may be used for such expenditures as the city
deems appropriate.
   C.   Pending use, the grantee shall invest the retained amounts for
reconstruction and expansion in:
      1.   Obligations of the United States government; or
      2.   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United
States government or any agency thereof; or
      3.   Shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the United States government or by obligations fully guaranteed
as to principal and interest by the United States government or any agency
thereof.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
Cross-reference:
   See definition of “the act” in section
8-4A-1 of this chapter
8-4C2-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY OFFICIALS:
   A.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall maintain the necessary records for
determination of the user share of the cost and shall provide the billing and
collection services as required by section 8-4C1-2 of this article and
subsection 8-4C2-6A of this article.
   B.   City Treasurer: The city treasurer shall be responsible for the
investment and expenditure of all monies collected for industrial cost recovery
in accordance with section 8-4C2-11 of this article.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
8-4C2-13: MONITORING USER DISCHARGES REQUIRED:
The city shall maintain a program of monitoring industrial user discharges as
the city deems necessary, and as prescribed in article B of this chapter.
Additionally, industrial users shall be monitored at such frequency as deemed
necessary by the city for determination of the population equivalent of the
industrial user. The monitoring data collected shall be used to determine the
population equivalent in accordance with section 8-4C2-2 of this division.
(1989 Code § 11-137)
CHAPTER 5: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Nuisance Declared
8-5-3: Accumulation And Storage Of Litter
8-5-4: Collection And Disposal Services; Charges
8-5-5: Container Requirements
8-5-6: Collection Charges
8-5-7: Disposal Of Litter
8-5-8: Landscape Waste
8-5-9: Prohibited Acts
8-5-10: Enforcement
8-5-11: Penalty; Prima Facie Proof
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
DUMPSTER: A metal container of one cubic yard or more in volume with an
attached lid for handling by mechanical means.
GARBAGE: The handling, preparation, cooking, consumption and storage of food
and any other matter of any nature whatsoever subject to decay which may
putrefy or generate noxious or offensive odors, be a food source for rodents,
or may serve as a breeding or feeding place for insects or vermin.
LITTER: Includes garbage and rubbish.
OWNER: Any agent, firm, corporation or person who, alone or jointly or
severally with others, has a legal or equitable interest in the property.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, firm or any other group acting as a unit.
PUBLIC PLACE OR PUBLIC WAY: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys,
public grounds or public buildings.
RECYCLABLES: Newspapers, magazines, catalogues, corrugated cardboard, green/
brown clear glass bottles, tin and aluminum cans, plastic milk bottles and
water jugs, plastic pop bottles, and plastic detergent bottles.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular traffic.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal
cans, yard clippings, dead trees, tree limbs, wood, glass, discarded furniture,
concrete, bricks, crockery, and similar materials. However, “rubbish” shall not
include wood and other materials that are stored and commonly used for fuel.
STRUCTURE: A building or portion of a building of any type.
(1989 Code § 11-196)
8-5-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
All litter which has been stored, dumped or accumulated in any structure or in
any public way or on any real property, improved or vacant, other than as
provided in this chapter, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(1989 Code § 11-198)
8-5-3: ACCUMULATION OR STORAGE OF LITTER:
   A.   No person shall store or permit the accumulation of any litter in any
structure, other than in one designed for that purpose, upon any improved or
vacant property or upon any public place or public way in the city, unless
necessary for the operation of a business enterprise lawfully conducted
thereon.
   B.   The owner or occupant of any single-family structure shall have the
responsibility to maintain the private premises free from litter.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in private
containers.
(1989 Code § 11-199)
8-5-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES; CHARGES:
   A.   Residential properties shall be eligible for solid waste collection and
disposal services as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Duplexes, multi-family dwellings of four (4) units or more and
apartments in conjunction with a business will be deemed commercial and will
not be provided solid waste collection and disposal services under this
chapter.
(1989 Code § 11-201)
8-5-5: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Number And Capacity: Every structure must have sealable litter
containers in sufficient number and capacity to accommodate and contain all
litter generated and accumulated by occupants of the structure. A container,
other than a dumpster, shall have a capacity of not more than forty five (45)
gallons. No container shall weigh in excess of fifty (50) pounds.
(1989 Code § 11-200)
   B.   Responsibility To Provide Containers:
      1.   Single-Family Dwellings: The occupants of any single-family dwelling
must provide, maintain and keep tightly covered or sealed watertight containers
for all litter; provided that rubbish may be stored in other types of
containers, provided it is not mixed with garbage.
      2.   Multi-Family Dwellings Of Less Than Four Units: The owner of a
multi-family dwelling of less than four (4) units must provide, maintain and
keep tightly covered or sealed watertight containers for all litter; provided
that rubbish may be stored in other types of containers, provided it is not
mixed with garbage.
      3.   a.   Duplexes, Multi-Family Dwellings Of More Than Four Units And
Apartments: The owners of duplexes, multi-family dwellings of four (4) units or
more and owners of apartments must provide and maintain a watertight and
tightly sealed covered or sealed dumpster for all litter.
         b.   The owners of duplexes, multi-family dwellings of four (4) units
or more and apartments must register with the street department office the
number of dwelling units within said structure.
(1989 Code § 11-201)
   C.   Placement Of Containers:
      1.   Single-Family Dwellings: It shall be the duty of all persons
occupying or controlling any single-family dwelling to place containers for
litter either on the alley lot line or on the curb line of the premises on the
day of garbage pick up. However, in no instance shall the placement of litter
at said location be made more than twenty four (24) hours prior to the time of
garbage pick up.
      2.   Multi-Family Dwellings Of Less Than Four Units: In multifamily
dwellings of less than four (4) units, it shall be the duty of the owner to
assure placement of containers for litter either on the alley lot line or on a
curb line of the premises on the day of garbage pick up. However, in no
instance shall litter be placed at said location more than twenty four (24)
hours prior to the scheduled pick up.
      3.   Multi-Family Dwellings Of Four or More Units And Businesses: The
owner or occupant of a multi-family dwelling of four(4) or more units or any
business shall not locate a dumpster or any other container for garbage or
rubbish nearer than one hundred feet (100') to any single-family residential
building unless an application is made to and is granted by the city
superintendent of streets to otherwise place the same on the property.
(1989 Code § 11-202)
   D.   Disturbing Containers Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than the owner, occupant or members of the family, the owner’s agent,
employees of the city, agents of the city, or garbage contractor employed by
the city to deposit, remove, deface, destroy or disturb litter containers.
(1989 Code § 11-206)
8-5-6: COLLECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Owners will be charged a fee of sixteen dollars ($16.00) per month for
in-city residential collection of garbage, recycling, and landscape wastes, and
thirty two dollars ($32.00) per month for outside-city collection of same, or
must contract privately to have commercial haulers remove said litter.
(1989 Code § 11-203; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Bills For Service; Due Date: The fee shall be billed in accordance with
the billing procedures set forth in section
8-1-2 of this title. Payment of this fee, except as otherwise set forth
previously herein, will permit the placement of one litter container for
collection on the day of garbage pick up. Containers bearing recycled items are
not subject to this limitation.
   C.   Garbage Disposal Stickers:
      1.   The third litter container, and all those thereafter, shall be
required to bear a garbage disposal sticker issued by the city (hereinafter
“sticker”) upon that container. If a container is presented for disposal which
requires a sticker and the container does not bear the same, it will not be
accepted for disposal.
(1989 Code § 11-203)
      2.   Stickers for garbage disposal may be obtained at the city clerk’s
office, during normal business hours, and through various businesses located
within the city. The fee for each sticker shall be as provided in the city fee
schedule.
      3.   Any business desiring to provide the retail sale of said stickers
may purchase the same from the city clerk at the cost as provided in the city
fee schedule. Each wholesale purchase shall be in groups of one hundred (100)
stickers or more. The retail sale of stickers shall be as provided in the city
fee schedule.
(1989 Code § 11-203; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Waiver Of Charges: Charges for collection may be waived when the owner
or occupant of a residential dwelling unit advises the city street department
that they will not be in residence at the dwelling for a period of at least
three (3) consecutive full calendar months. Charges will be waived for only
those full calendar months the dwelling unit is unoccupied during that time.
(1989 Code § 11-203)
   E.   Disputed Charges: Any garbage and refuse collection customer disputing
any charges or services rendered may have an opportunity to be heard and
present evidence before the city administrative hearing officer if such
customer files a written notice with the city clerk as provided in this title.
(1989 Code § 11-204) (O-21-006, 3-15-2021; O-22-005, 3-21-2022)
8-5-7: DISPOSAL OF LITTER:
   A.   No person shall throw, deposit or dump litter, or hire or cause another
to throw, deposit or dump litter, on any property except in a public landfill.
   B.   The owner of any litter shall be liable for its placement on the
property of others. Proof of ownership of any litter found on any property of
another shall be prima facie evidence at the trial of a violation of this
section. Evidence that the owner of the litter reasonably relied upon his or
her agent to deposit litter in a public landfill shall be an affirmative
defense in any ordinance prosecution.
(1989 Code § 11-205)
8-5-8: LANDSCAPE WASTE:
   A.   Residential Curb Pick Up: The fees for residential curb pick up shall
be as provided in the city fee schedule. Fees will be exempted for major storm
events, as determined by the superintendent of streets.
   B.   Routine Yard Waste:
      1.   Bagged Or Bundled: For routine yard waste, bagged or bundled, the
bags cannot be heavier than fifty (50) pounds. There are no added fees.
      2.   Not Bagged Or Bundled: For routine yard waste unable to be bagged or
bundled, the fees shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
      3.   Tree Stumps Or Logs: No tree stumps or logs shall be accepted in
excess of eighteen inches (18") in diameter.
      4.   Fees may be declared exempted after major storm events.
(Ord. O-16-002, 4-18-2016; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. O-17-011, 6-5-2017)
   C.   Residential Preparation For Disposal:
      1.   Branches are to be neatly placed and parallel to the curb.
      2.   Unorganized or tangled brush piles will not be collected, and the
resident will be asked to restack the pile.
      3.   Only branches from trees and bushes (up to eight (8) inches in
diameter at the cut end) will be eligible for pick up.
      4.   Branches may be any length, though the ends must be cleanly cut with
no attached root systems.
      5.   Items larger than eight inches (8") in diameter, materials such as
construction wood, branches with nails or spikes, wooden fence pieces/doors,
firewood logs, rose bushes, poison ivy, small hedge/evergreen trimmings, and
yard rakings cannot be mulched and must be disposed of by the resident through
other means.
      6.   Brush pick up at any one residence will be limited to approximately
one hundred (100) square feet of front area along the parkway (approximately
six feet (6') high by seventeen feet (17') long).
      7.   Contractor generated brush will not be collected.
   D.   Disposal Requirements:
      1.   Yard waste is collected from April 1 to December 15 only. A special
two-week collection period for Christmas trees and greenery will be the first
two full weeks in January.
      2.   Smaller brush and yard waste can be placed into biodegradable yard
waste paper bags not to exceed 30 gallons in capacity or 50 pounds in weight.
      3.   Larger brush piles must be bundled using garden string or twine, no
metal wire or plastic ties. The bundle size is restricted to four feet (4') in
length, two feet (2') diameter, and no heavier than fifty (50) pounds. Branches
cannot exceed three inches (3") in diameter.
      4.   Branches or stumps larger than three inches (3") in diameter cannot
be placed in the landscape waste bags; they must be handled with regular
refuse. Weight is limited to a maximum of fifty (50) pounds. Excessive amounts
will incur a charge or require an alternative disposal method.
(Ord. O-16-002, 4-18-2016)
   E.   Contractor Disposal:
      1.   Permit Fees: The permit fees for contractor disposal shall be as
provided in the city fee schedule.
      2.   Logs: Logs must be separated from brush. Logs with any diameter
along their lengths exceeding twenty four inches (24") are prohibited.
      3.   Use Of City Brush Pit:
         a.   Once a permit is issued, contractors will only be able to use the
brush pit during regular hours (eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. to two thirty o’clock
(2:30) p.m., Monday through Friday). The brush pit will be closed on city
observed holidays.
         b.   In addition, contractors are not allowed to use the city’s brush
drop-off on Euclid Avenue.
(Ord. O-17-011, 6-5-2017)
8-5-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Abandoned Containers: No person shall have on any lot any abandoned or
unattended refrigerator or other similar appliance with a capacity greater than
one and one-half (1-1/2) cubic feet, and which has an airtight door or lid
which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, and which
may not be released from the inside.
(1989 Code § 11-208)
   B.   Depositing Litter Onto Public Ways And Property: No person shall sweep
or deposit any litter onto any public place or public way except in public
containers. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk and
any right of way on their property free of litter.
(1989 Code § 11-209)
   C.   Throwing Litter From Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit litter
from a vehicle upon any public way or public place.
(1989 Code § 11-210)
   D.   Spilling Loads; Deposits From Tires: No person shall drive or move any
vehicle unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded to prevent any litter or
material from being blown or deposited upon any public way or public place; nor
shall any person drive or move any vehicle whose wheels or tires deposit dirt,
mud, sticky substances, or similar material on a public way or public place.
(1989 Code § 11-211)
Cross-reference:
   Certain nuisances enumerated, see subsection
4-1-3B of this code
   Depositing refuse onto public ways, see section
7-1-3 of this code
8-5-10: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the city police department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(1989 Code § 11-197)
8-5-11: PENALTY; PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
   A.   Penalty: Any person found to have violated any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   B.   Prima Facie Proof: The fact that litter remains on any premises in the
city in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of such premises is responsible for the occurring violation. However,
in the event that the property on which the litter is located is vacant, it
shall be prima facie evidence that the owner of such property is responsible
for the violation of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 11-212)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
TITLE 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
9-1-1: Permit Requirements
9-1-2: Fees
9-1-3: Enforcement Official
9-1-4: Penalty And Other Remedies
9-1-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A building permit shall be secured before:
      1.   Work is commenced to erect, enlarge or structurally alter any
building or structure of any kind whatsoever, or before any excavation is dug
for any such purpose.
      2.   Sidewalks, curbings, parkways, streets or any other property of the
city are obstructed, broken, repaired or in any way altered.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   An application for the issuance of a building permit shall be made
to the zoning administrator on such forms as he or she shall prescribe, which
application, among other things, shall contain an accurate and complete
description of the location, extent and dimensions of any proposed work.
      2.   When the application is for the erection, enlargement or alteration
of any building, the application shall contain or there shall be attached
thereto a drawing or plat showing the lot plan and the location of existing
buildings, if any, on such lot, and the location, extent and dimensions of the
proposed construction or alteration. However, nothing contained in this
subsection B2 shall be construed as requiring the employment of an architect to
prepare the application or plans required by this subsection. The application
shall be kept in the office of the zoning administrator.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Within a reasonable time after such application has
been made, the zoning administrator shall issue a building permit if the
application and the proposed construction or work complies with the provisions
of this title and with any zoning regulations and all other building and health
laws and provisions of this code, which are now or shall be hereafter in force.
   D.   Copy On Site: The job copy of the building permit shall be kept at the
place of construction at all times until the work is completed.
Cross-reference:
   See section
10-11-19 of this code
9-1-2: FEES:
The fees for this title shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
9-1-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to enforce this title.
9-1-4: PENALTY AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this title
shall be fined as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, or if any sidewalk,
parkway, curbing or street is obstructed, broken, repaired or altered in
violation of this title, the proper authorities of the city, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
such unlawful erection, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of such
building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about such premises.
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
CHAPTER 2: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
9-2-1: Adoption Of Code
9-2-2: Amendments To Code
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The international residential code, 2021 edition (“residential code”), is
hereby adopted by reference and made part of this section, subject to
modifications set forth in section
9-2-2 of this chapter, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of
the international residential code are on file in the office of the city clerk
for public use and inspection.
(Ord. O-25-002, 1-20-2025)
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The residential code adopted in section
9-2-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
Section R101.1, insert city of Princeton.
Section R105.1 shall be amended as follows:
R105.1 Required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct,
enlarge, structurally alter, including the installation of decks, gazebos,
porches, detached accessory buildings or structures, fences, and swimming
pools; move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure;
replace any plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this
code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the
zoning administrator and obtain the required permit(s).
Section R105.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinance of the
city.
Building:
   1.   Non-structural alterations/interior walls.
   2.   Roof coverings.
   3.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, countertops, and similar finish
work.
   4.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to a one- or two-family
dwelling.
   5.   Prefabricated storage containers less than 100 cubic feet in volume,
accessory to a one- or two-family dwelling, located in the side or rear yard
behind the setback line and outside any easements.
   6.   Sidewalks and patios.
   8.   Retaining walls that are not over 8 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall.
Electrical: Add installation in existing buildings.
Gas: Add installation in existing buildings.
Mechanical: Add installation in existing buildings.
Section R105.5 shall be amended to add:
The work authorized by permit shall be completed and a final inspection
conducted within 180 days after its issuance. Exceptions: The following work
authorized by permit shall be completed and a final inspection conducted within
one year after its issuance.
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Two-family dwellings.
      3.   Townhouse dwellings.
      4.   Dwelling unit additions and/or alterations.
Table R301.2(1), insert the following:
Ground snow load: 20 psf.
Wind speed (three second gust): 90 mph.
Weathering: severe.
Frost line depth: 42 inches minimum below grade.
Termite: moderate to heavy.
Winter design temperature: -4 degrees Fahrenheit.
Ice barrier underlayment: required.
Flood hazards: reference flood insurance rate map for city of Princeton.
Air freezing index: 2000.
Mean annual temperature: 50.5 degrees Fahrenheit.
Section R313.2 (One and Two Family Dwelling automatic fire systems) shall be
deleted.
Chapter 4: All references to wood foundations shall be deleted.
CHAPTER 3: BUILDING CODE
Section
9-3-1: Adoption Of Code
9-3-2: Amendments To Code
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The international building code, 2021 edition (“building code”), is hereby
adopted by reference and made part of this section, subject to modifications
set forth in section
9-3-2 of this chapter, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of
the international building code are on file in the office of the city clerk for
public use and inspection.
(Ord. O-25-002, 1-20-2025)
9-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The building code adopted in section
9-3-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
Section A101.1, insert city of Princeton.
Section A105.1 shall be amended as follows:
A105.1 Required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct,
enlarge, structurally alter, including the installation of decks, gazebos,
porches, detached accessory buildings or structures, fences, and swimming
pools; move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure;
replace any plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this
code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the
zoning administrator and obtain the required permit(s).
Section A105.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
A105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinance of the
city.
Building:
   1.   Minor non-structural interior alterations without change of occupancy.
   2.   Roof coverings.
   3.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, countertops, and similar finish
work.
   4.   Sidewalks and patios.
   5.   Retaining walls that are not over 8 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall.
CHAPTER 4: EXISTING BUILDING CODE
Section
9-4-1: Adoption Of Code
9-4-2: Amendments To Code
9-4-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The international existing building code, 2021 edition (“existing building
code”), is hereby adopted by reference and made part of this section, subject
to modifications set forth in section
9-4-2 of this chapter, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of
the international existing building code are on file in the office of the city
clerk for public use and inspection.
(Ord. O-25-002, 1-20-2025)
9-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The existing building code adopted in section
9-4-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
Section A101.1, insert city of Princeton.
Section A105.1 shall be amended as follows:
A105.1 Required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct,
enlarge, structurally alter, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure; replace any plumbing system, the installation of which
is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first
make application to the zoning administrator and obtain the required permit(s).
Section A105.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
A105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinance of the
city.
Building:
   1.   Minor non-structural interior alterations without change of occupancy.
   2.   Roof coverings.
   3.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, countertops, and similar finish
work.
   4.   Sidewalks and patios.
CHAPTER 5: FIRE CODE
Section
9-5-1: Adoption Of Code
9-5-2: Amendments To Code
9-6-3: Pollinator Gardens
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The international property maintenance code, 2021 edition (“property
maintenance code”), is hereby adopted by reference and made part of this
section, subject to modifications set forth in section
9-6-2 of this chapter, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of
the international property maintenance code are on file in the office of the
city clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. O-25-002, 1-20-2025)
9-5-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The fire code adopted in section
9-5-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
Section A101.1, insert city of Princeton.
9-6-3: POLLINATOR GARDENS:
Pollinator gardens shall be allowed to cover a maximum area of 50 square feet
in front yards, and may occupy up to 50% of a rear yard area. Pollinator
gardens must be 4'-0" linear distance from public properly. Pollinator gardens
shall only be deemed as compliant if all plants in the dedicated area arc of
the approved pollinator species for the State of Illinois as defined by the
Department of Natural Resources. Pollinator gardens shall be maintained
annually in order to prevent unwanted and non-native species from inhabiting
the dedicated pollinator garden area as defined by this ordinance. Code
enforcement officers have the ability and right to deem a pollinator garden as
compliant or non-compliant, and can enforce property maintenance code in the
instance that a planting area does not meet the standards of pollinator gardens
as outlined by this ordinance.
(Ord. O-25-003, 1-20-2025)
CHAPTER 6: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
9-6-1: Adoption Of Code
9-6-2: Amendments To Code
9-6-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The international property maintenance code, 2015 edition (“property
maintenance code”), is hereby adopted by reference and made part of this
section, subject to modifications set forth in section
9-6-2 of this chapter, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of
the international property maintenance code are on file in the office of the
city clerk for public use and inspection.
9-6-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The property maintenance code adopted in section
9-6-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
Section A101.1, insert city of Princeton.
Section 302.4 Weeds. Insert “eight (8) inches”.
CHAPTER 7: ELECTRIC CODE
Section
9-7-1: Adoption Of Code
9-7-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The NFPA 70 National Electric Code 2023, is hereby adopted by reference and
made part of this section, subject to modifications set forth herein, and shall
be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of the national electric code are
on file in the office of the city clerk for public use and inspection.
(Ord. O-23-010, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 8: PLUMBING CODE
Section
9-8-1: Adoption Of Code
9-8-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The most current Illinois plumbing code (“plumbing code”) is hereby adopted by
reference and made part of this section, subject to modifications set forth
herein, and shall be applicable to the city. Three (3) copies of the most
current Illinois plumbing code are on file in the office of the city clerk for
public use and inspection.
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING AND LOT NUMBERS
Section
9-9-1: Numbers Required
9-9-2: Method Of Numbering
9-9-3: Fractional Lots
9-9-4: Violations; Penalties
9-9-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED:
All lots and parts of lots and buildings lying and being within the corporate
limits of the city shall be designated by street numbers in the following
manner: All lots, fractional lots and buildings abutting on the south and east
sides of the streets and avenues of the city shall be numbered with odd
numbers; and all lots and parts of lots and buildings abutting on the north and
west sides of the streets and avenues shall be numbered with even numbers.
(1989 Code § 11-112)
9-9-2: METHOD OF NUMBERING:
   A.   On all streets and avenues north of North Street, and which run north
and south, the numbering of the lots, fractional lots, and buildings abutting
on such streets and avenues shall commence at the points where such streets and
avenues intersect North Street, with the numbers one hundred (100) on the west
sides, and one hundred one (101) on the east sides thereof, and shall be
continued thence northerly, giving numbers consecutively, in each block, to
each twenty feet (20') of frontage in such block, except as stated in this
chapter. The lots, fractional lots and buildings in each block, continuing
northward to the city limits, shall be numbered in like manner, commencing in
each block with the first even and odd numbers of the next succeeding hundred.
   B.   On all streets and avenues south of North Street, and which run north
and south, the numbering of the lots, fractional lots and buildings abutting on
such streets and avenues shall commence at the points where such streets and
avenues intersect North Street, with the numbers one hundred (100) on the west
sides, and one hundred one (101) on the east sides thereof, and shall be
continued thence southerly, giving numbers consecutively, in each block, to
each twenty feet (20') of frontage in such block, except as stated in this
chapter. The lots, fractional lots, and buildings in each block, continuing
southward to the city limits, shall be numbered in like manner, commencing in
each block with the first even and odd numbers of the next succeeding hundred.
   C.   On all streets and avenues east of Main Street, and which run east and
west, the numbering of the lots and fractional lots and buildings abutting on
such streets and avenues shall commence at the points where such streets and
avenues intersect Main Street, with the numbers one hundred (100) on the north
sides, and one hundred one (101) on the south sides thereof, and shall be
continued thence easterly, giving numbers consecutively in each block to each
twenty feet (20') of frontage in such block, except as stated in this chapter.
The lots, fractional lots and buildings in each block, continuing eastward to
the city limits, shall be numbered in like manner, commencing in each block
with the first even and odd numbers of the next succeeding hundred.
   D.   On all streets and avenues west of Main Street, and which run east and
west, the numbering of the lots, fractional lots and buildings abutting on such
streets and avenues shall commence at the points where such streets and avenues
intersect Main Street, with the numbers one hundred (100) on the north sides,
and one hundred one (101) on the south sides thereof, and shall be continued
thence westerly, giving numbers consecutively in each block, to each twenty
feet (20') of frontage in such block, except as stated in this chapter. The
lots, fractional lots and buildings in each block, continuing westward to the
city limits, shall be numbered in like manner, commencing in each block with
the first even and odd numbers of the next succeeding hundred.
(1989 Code § 11-113)
9-9-3: FRACTIONAL LOTS:
The provisions of section
9-9-2 of this chapter requiring each twenty feet (20') of frontage to be given
a number mean that such twenty feet (20') shall include or exclude small
fractions more or less than twenty feet (20'), if such fractions do not exceed
ten feet (10'); but if any fraction over twenty feet (20') shall be ten feet
(10') or more, then such fraction shall be given a one-half (1/2) number
between the numbers of the lots, fractional lots or buildings, on either side
thereof, such fractions to be determined by ownership; if the entire frontage
of any owner or owners shall be ten feet (10') or less, such lots, fractional
lots, or buildings on such frontage shall be given a one-half (1/2) number in
like manner; provided, that if any owner has a frontage which shall require
more than one number, the smallest of such numbers so required which would be
properly applicable to the building or buildings already on such frontage shall
be used, and the remaining numbers shall not be used until other buildings
shall be erected on such frontage.
(1989 Code § 11-114)
9-9-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall, by posting a number or numbers on any lot,
fractional lot or building in the city, attempt to designate such lot,
fractional lot, or building by any other number than that which is in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to a penalty
as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   Any person who shall, in any manner, maliciously mar, deface, injure or
remove any number or numbers properly placed on any lot, fractional lot, or
building in the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(1989 Code § 11-111)
TITLE 10: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
Section
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Effective Date
10-1-3: Authority
10-1-4: Applicability And Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Minimum Requirements
10-1-6: Purpose And Intent
10-1-7: Flood Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-1-8: Zoning Map
10-1-9: Interpretation Of Zoning District Boundaries
10-1-10: Word Usage And Construction Of Language
10-1-11: Conflicting Provisions
10-1-12: Transitional Provisions
10-1-13: Severability
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title will be known and cited as the LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF PRINCETON,
ILLINOIS. References herein to “this title” will be interpreted as referring to
the land development code.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this title become effective on October 1, 2006.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-3: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted under the statutory authority conferred by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
This title applies to all lands and waters within the corporate limits of the
city. All structures and land uses constructed or commenced and all
enlargements of, additions to, changes in and relocations of existing
structures and uses are subject to the requirements of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The standards in this title are minimum requirements. Other local, state and
federal regulations may also apply. The issuance of any permit, certificate or
approval in accordance with the standards and requirements of this title does
not relieve the recipient of such permit, certificate or approval from the
responsibility of complying with all other applicable requirements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-6: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of existing and future residents of the city by:
   A.   Implementing the comprehensive plan;
   B.   Classifying land within the city into zoning districts;
   C.   Regulating the location and use of all structures, lands and waters;
   D.   Regulating the intensity of uses and structures through building
coverage, density and dimensional standards;
   E.   Ensuring protection from fire, flood and other dangers;
   F.   Lessening congestion and promoting the safety and efficiency of streets
and highways;
   G.   Improving pedestrian safety;
   H.   Providing adequate privacy, light, air, sanitation, and drainage;
   I.   Preventing overcrowding and avoiding undue population concentration;
   J.   Facilitating the adequate provision of public facilities and utilities;
   K.   Providing adequate and aesthetically pleasing stormwater management
facilities;
   L.   Stabilizing and protecting property values;
   M.   Furthering the appropriate use of land and conservation of natural
resources;
   N.   Maintaining and enhancing the aesthetic appearance and physical design
of the city;
   O.   Encouraging the effective use of signs as a means of communication for
businesses, organizations and individuals, and minimizing the possible adverse
effects of signs on nearby public and private property;
   P.   Ensuring sound development and community growth by establishing minimum
standards for subdivision design;
   Q.   Promoting aesthetically pleasing development by establishing minimum
standards for installation of landscaping and screening materials;
   R.   Minimizing the adverse impacts of noise, dust, glare and other
objectionable activities or impacts;
   S.   Promoting the development of land for the highest possible use and
protecting against deterioration and obsolescence that would adversely affect
the living environment or tax base;
   T.   Providing common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the city and developers and to safeguard the interests of
the homeowner, the subdivider, the investor and the city;
   U.   Managing growth within the city by concentrating development within the
effective operating range of existing public utilities and improvements;
   V.   Causing the cost of design and installation of improvements in new,
platted subdivisions to be borne by the persons purchasing the lots rather than
by any direct or indirect burden upon existing property owners beyond the
limits of the subdivision;
   W.   Coordinating new subdivision design with the design of the city as a
whole to allow for the proper capacity of all types of improvements on the
basis of an orderly sequence of subdivisions as a part of neighborhoods and
neighborhoods as a part of the community;
   X.   Securing the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters;
   Y.   Improving land records by establishing standards for surveys and plats;
and
   Z.   Providing for the administration and enforcement of this title and
providing penalties for its violation.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-7: FLOOD WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific methods of
study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not imply that
development either inside or outside of floodplain areas will be free from
flooding or flood damage. This title does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof, or the federal emergency
management agency, for any flood damage that may result from reliance on this
title or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-8: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adoption: The location and boundaries of the zoning districts
established by this title are shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map Of The City
Of Princeton, Illinois”. That map, together with all notations, references,
data and other information shown on the map, is hereby adopted as part of this
title. The map must remain on file and available to the public in the office of
the city zoning administrator.
   B.   Annual Revision: The city council will publish a revised zoning map no
later than March 31 of each year clearly showing the zoning district
classifications of the city for the preceding calendar year. If in any calendar
year no changes are made to zoning classifications or city boundaries, the city
is not required to publish a zoning map for that calendar year.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-9: INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Rules for the interpretation of zoning district boundaries are as follows:
   A.   Zoning district boundaries will be construed to follow:
      1.   Corporate limits;
      2.   United States public land survey lines;
      3.   Property lines;
      4.   Centerlines of streets, highways, alleys, easements, railroad rights
of way or extensions of such lines;
      5.   Soil mapping unit lines.
   B.   Vacation of public streets and alleys will cause the vacated land to be
automatically placed in the same district as the abutting side to which the
vacated land reverts.
   C.   Annexations to or consolidations with the city subsequent to the
effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter will be classified in the most restrictive zoning
district of contiguous property within the city. However, parcels consisting of
twenty (20) or more acres, and presently used for agricultural purposes, may,
at the petitioner’s election, be zoned agricultural district upon annexation.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-10: WORD USAGE AND CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
   A.   Meanings And Intent: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
used in this title will be construed according to the purpose and intent set
out in section
10-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Headings, Illustrations And Text: In case of any difference of meaning
or implication between the text of this title and any heading, drawing, table,
figure, or illustration, the text controls.
   C.   Lists And Examples: Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as “including”, “such as”, or similar
language are intended to provide examples; not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   D.   Computation Of Time: The time in which an act is to be done will be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the city, that day will be
excluded.
   E.   References To Other Regulations, Publications And Documents: Whenever
reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document,
that reference will be construed as referring to the most recent edition of
such resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document or to the relevant
successor document, unless otherwise expressly stated.
   F.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or another officer or employee of the city to perform an
act or duty, that provision will be construed as authorizing the department
head or officer to delegate that responsibility to others over whom they have
authority.
   G.   Technical And Nontechnical Terms: Words and phrases will be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
will be construed and understood according to such meaning. (See also chapter
14, “Terminology”, of this title.)
   H.   Public Officials And Agencies: All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of the city, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   I.   Mandatory And Discretionary Terms: The words “shall”, “will” and “must”
are mandatory. The words “may” and “should” are discretionary and advisory
terms.
   J.   Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions will be interpreted as follows:
      1.   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply; and
      2.   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events may apply.
   K.   Tenses And Plurals: Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-11: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflict With State Or Federal Regulations: If the provisions of this
title are inconsistent with those of the state or federal government, the more
restrictive provision will control, to the extent permitted by law.
   B.   Conflict With Other City Regulations: If the provisions of this title
are inconsistent with one another, or if they conflict with provisions found in
other adopted city ordinances, the more restrictive provision will control. No
text amendment, variance or condition on a special use permit or any other
development approval under this title may diminish the provisions of any other
more restrictive city ordinance.
   C.   Conflict With Private Easements, Agreements, Covenants Or Restrictions:
This title is not intended to annul or interfere with any private easement,
agreement, covenant, restriction or other private legal relationship. The city
is responsible for enforcing this title; it does not enforce private
agreements, easements, covenants or restrictions except those specifically
required for the administration and enforcement of this title, even where the
private agreements are more restrictive than the provisions of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-12: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Violations Continue: Any violation of the previous zoning or
subdivision regulations of the city will continue to be a violation under this
title and will be subject to penalties and enforcement under chapter 13 of this
title, unless the use, development, construction or other activity is
consistent with the express terms of this title, in which case, enforcement
action will cease, except to the extent of collecting penalties for violations
that occurred before the effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Completion Of Development:
      1.   Permits Issued Before Effective Date: Any building, development or
sign for which a permit was lawfully issued before the effective date specified
in section
10-1-2 of this chapter may be completed in conformance with the issued permit.
If the building, development or sign is not completed within the time allowed
under the original permit, then the building, development or sign may be
constructed, completed or occupied only in strict compliance with this title.
      2.   Preliminary Plats Approved Before Effective Date: If a preliminary
plat was approved before the effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter, final plat approval may be granted in accordance with
the preliminary plat. If a final plat is not approved within the time
requirements specified by prior ordinance or a schedule included with the
preliminary plat approval, the plan commission may grant one or more
extensions. The total time of all extensions may not exceed one year. If a
final plat is not approved within the time required, including any extensions,
then the completion of the subdivision and construction of buildings may only
occur if the final plat complies with all requirements of this title. If the
final plat is not in compliance with this title, then a modified final plat
must be submitted and approved pursuant to the procedures of chapter 11 of this
title.
   C.   Special (Conditional) Uses:
      1.   Any use that was legally established before the effective date
specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter without a conditional use permit and which after the
effective date is located within a zoning district that requires a special use
permit for the subject use under this title, will be issued a special use
permit without following the procedures of section
10-11-5 of this title. Any use that was legally established prior to the
special use permit requirement of this title for the subject use in the zoning
district in question will similarly be issued a special use permit without
following the procedures of section
10-11-5 of this title. Expansions and modifications of such uses will be
subject to section
10-11-5 of this title. Even if a special use permit is issued pursuant to this
section, those uses or structures that do not comply with applicable standards
of this title, including the use regulations of chapter 3 of this title, will
be deemed nonconforming and be subject to the regulations of chapter 12 of this
title.
      2.   Any use that was legally established before the effective date
specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter with a conditional use permit and which after the
effective date is located within a zoning district that requires a special use
permit for the subject use, may continue to be operated under the terms of the
original conditional use permit and will hereby be referred to as a special
use. The use will be subject to all applicable standards of this title,
including the use standards of chapter 3 of this title and the nonconformity
regulations of chapter 12 of this title. Expansions and modifications of such
uses will be subject to section
10-11-5 of this title.
      3.   Any use that was legally established before the effective date
specified in section
10-1-2 of this chapter with a conditional use permit and which after the
effective date is located within a zoning district that does not require a
special use permit for the subject use, will continue to be subject to all
applicable standards of this title, including the use standards of chapter 3 of
this title and the nonconformity regulations of chapter 12 of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-1-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction rules any provision of this title
invalid, that ruling will not affect any provision of this title not
specifically included in the judgment. If any court of competent jurisdiction
rules invalid the application of any provision of this title to a particular
property, building other structure, or use, that ruling will not affect the
application of this title to any property, building other structure, or use not
specifically included in the judgment.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 2: ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
10-2-1: Residential Districts
10-2-2: Commercial Districts
10-2-3: Industrial Districts
10-2-4: Agricultural District
10-2-5: Operational Performance Standards
10-2-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Establishment Of Districts: The following residential districts are
established in the city of Princeton:
 
Abbreviation District Name
RE           Estate residential district
R1A          Single-family residential district
R1           Single-family residential district
R2           Single-family residential district
R3           General residential district
 
   B.   District Descriptions:
      1.   RE, Estate Residential District: The RE district is intended to
accommodate the development of detached single-family houses on large,
individual lots.
      2.   R1A, R1, And R2, Single-Family Residential Districts: The R1A, R1
and R2 districts are intended to accommodate the development of single-family
houses on lots of various sizes.
      3.   R3, General Residential District: The R3 district is intended to
accommodate a variety of housing types, including multi-family dwellings,
attached residential dwellings such as townhouses and detached single-family
dwellings.
   C.   Allowed Uses: Uses are allowed in accordance with the use table in
section
10-3-1 of this title.
   D.   Dimensional Standards: All development in residential districts must
comply with the dimensional standards in section
10-4-1 of this title.
   E.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Only One Principal Building: Only one principal building may be
located, erected or moved onto any lot of record in any single-family
residential district.
      2.   Operational Performance Standards: All uses in the residential
districts must comply with the operational performance standards in section
10-2-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Outdoor Storage, Display And Work Areas: All allowed uses in all
residential districts must be conducted within completely enclosed buildings
unless otherwise expressly stated in this title. (Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006
as revised 3-2016)
10-2-2: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Establishment Of Districts: The following commercial districts are
established in the city of Princeton:
 
Abbreviation District Name
B1           Downtown commercial district
B2           Community retail and service district
B3           Professional services district
B4           General commercial district
 
   B.   District Descriptions:
      1.   B1, Downtown Commercial District: The B1 district is intended to
accommodate retail and service businesses in pedestrian oriented, storefront
style buildings with residential dwelling units above the ground floor.
      2.   B2, Community Retail And Service District: The B2 district is
intended to accommodate a wide variety of retail, service and limited wholesale
businesses of varying sizes that are primarily automobile oriented.
      3.   B3, Professional Office District: The B3 district is intended to
accommodate professional office uses primarily in residential style structures
and to serve as a transitional district between downtown commercial areas and
adjacent residential neighborhoods.
      4.   B4, General Commercial District: The B4 district is intended to
accommodate retail, service and limited wholesale businesses, including those
with extensive outdoor sales areas or outdoor display of heavy equipment for
sale or rent.
   C.   Allowed Uses: Uses are allowed in accordance with the use table in
section
10-3-1 of this title.
   D.   Dimensional Standards: All development in commercial districts must
comply with the dimensional standards in section
10-4-2 of this title.
   E.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   B1 District Character Standards:
         a.   Building Location: All street facing building facades must be
located within five feet (5') of the sidewalk, with the exception that any
street facing facade may be set back farther than five feet (5') from the
sidewalk where the setback area is utilized for outdoor dining, public seating
or other usable pedestrian oriented public space. The setback area shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the lot depth. Similarly, the first floor
of the building may be set back if the public sidewalk is covered by a recessed
entryway that is supported by structural elements of the building or
overhanging upper stories that maintain the presence of the building up on the
street.
         b.   Doors And Entrances: Buildings must have a primary entrance
facing the street. Building entrances may include direct entrances to
individual businesses, lobby entrances or pedestrian oriented courtyards or
plazas leading to multiple businesses.
         c.   Building Transparency: A minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the
street facing facade between four feet (4') and ten feet (10') in height must
consist of clear, nonreflective windows that allow views into the interior of
the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.png]
 
    d.   Parking And Access: Off street parking must be located to the side or
rear of the principal building on the lot. No curb cuts or driveway openings
are permitted along the front property line when alternative access is
possible, such as from an alley or side street.
         e.   Building Materials: The front exterior facade of buildings must
be primarily clad with brick, stone or other natural materials. Concrete block
is prohibited on front facades, but may be used on interior sides and rear
walls.
      2.   B3 District Character Standard: The front exterior facade of
buildings within the B3 district must be primarily clad with brick, stone or
other natural materials. Concrete block and metal is prohibited on front
facades, but may be used on interior sides and rear walls.
      3.   Operational Performance Standards: All uses in the commercial
districts must comply with the operational performance standards in section
10-2-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Outdoor Storage, Display And Work Areas:
         a.   B1 And B3 Districts: All allowed uses in the B1 and B3 districts
must be conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise
expressly stated in this title.
         b.   B2 And B4 Districts: Outdoor storage, display and work areas are
permitted, subject to the following requirements:
            (1)   Maximum Size: Outdoor storage, display and work areas may
cover no more than the following area on a lot:
 
                           B2 B4
Maximum percent of lot area 10 50
 
            (2)   Screening: Outdoor storage areas must be screened in
accordance with the requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-2-3: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Establishment Of Districts: The following industrial districts are
established in the city of Princeton:
 
Abbreviation District Name
M1           Limited manufacturing district
M2           General manufacturing district
 
   B.   District Descriptions:
      1.   M1, Limited Manufacturing District: The M1 district is intended to
provide for a wide range of light manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling,
office and support service uses whose operations have minimal impact on
adjacent properties.
      2.   M2, General Manufacturing District: The M2 district is intended to
provide for those manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling or transportation
terminal uses whose operations have a greater impact on the surrounding area
than those in the M1 district, including extensive outdoor storage and
operations. It is also the intent of this district to ensure that intensive
industrial operations are not conducted near residential areas.
   C.   Allowed Uses: Uses are allowed in accordance with the use table in
section
10-3-1 of this title.
   D.   Dimensional Standards: All development in manufacturing districts must
comply with the dimensional standards in section
10-4-2 of this title.
   E.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Operational Performance Standards: All uses in the industrial
districts must comply with the operational performance standards in section
10-2-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Outdoor Storage, Display And Work Areas: Outdoor storage, display
and work areas are permitted in the M1 and M2 districts, subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   Maximum Size: Outdoor storage, display and work areas may cover
no more than the following area on a lot:
 
                           M2 M4
Maximum percent of lot area 20 80
 
         b.   Screening: Outdoor storage areas must be screened according to
the requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis:
      1.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
subsection to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
city of Princeton. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided
in the cannabis regulation and tax act (P.A. 101-0027) (act), as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the
regulations provided below. In the event that the act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
      2.   Special Use: Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities,
as defined herein, requiring approval of a special use in the respective
districts in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with
section
10-11-4A “Special Uses” and subsection F3 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility
Components) as provided herein.
      3.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance
with 10-11-4A “Special Uses”, the following components of the adult-use
cannabis facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties:
         a.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses
located within the vicinity of the subject property.
         b.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage,
security installations/security plan and building code compliance.
         c.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
         d.   Anticipated parking demand based on section
10-5-1 and available private parking supply.
         e.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
         f.   Site design, including access points and internal site
circulation.
         g.   Proposed signage plan.
         h.   Compliance with all requirements provided in subsection F4
(Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower); subsection F5 (Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Center); subsection F6 (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing
Organization); subsection F7 (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization);
subsection F8 (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization); or subsection F9
(Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as applicable.
         i.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance
with section
10-11-4A “Special Uses”.
      4.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those zoning districts in which
an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
         c.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the act.
         d.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
craft grower shall be classified as “production and industrial service” per
section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses),
provided, however, that the city may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through section
10-11-4, (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
         e.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with section
10-11-4 (Special Uses) as provided herein and all other requirements of the
act.
      5.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this
subsection.
         b.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
         c.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the act.
         d.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified as “production and industrial service”
per section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses),
provided, however, that the city may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through section
10-11-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
         e.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with section
10-11-4 (Special Use) as provided herein and all other requirements of the act.
      6.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
         c.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the dispensing organization as authorized by the act, and no
dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises
other than as authorized in subsection F6e below in the same tenant space.
         d.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the act.
         e.   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by subsection F10 (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect
adequate provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The
on-site consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or
revoked following notice and hearing.
(1989 Code 7-273)
         f.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “retail sales” per section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Commercial Uses) of the
city municipal code, provided, however, that the city may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
section
10-11-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
         g.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with Section 10-11-4 (Special Use) as provided herein and all other
requirements of the act.
      7.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
         c.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the infusing organization as authorized by the act. Facility may
not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by
the act.
         d.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “production and industrial service” per section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses) of the
city municipal code, provided, however, that the city may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
section
10-11-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
         e.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with section
10-11-4 as provided herein and all other requirements of the act.
      8.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
         c.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the processing organization as authorized by the act. Facility
may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized
by the act.
         d.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “production and industrial service” per section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses) of the
city municipal code, provided, however, that the city may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
section
10-11-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
         e.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with section
10-11-4 (Special Use) as provided herein and all other requirements of the act.
      9.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned
or used for residential purposes.
         c.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
         d.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “warehouse” per section
10-5-2 (Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements: Industrial Uses) of the
city municipal code, provided, however, that the city may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
section
10-11-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
         e.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the city affirming
compliance with section
10-11-5 (Special Use) as provided herein and all other requirements of the act.
      10.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the conditional use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the act.
      11.   Co-Location of Cannabis Business Establishments. The city may
approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with
an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use cannabis infuser
organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the act and the special use
criteria within the city municipal code. In a co-location, the floor space
requirements of section F6c and F7c shall not apply, but the co-located
establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016; Ord. O-19-025, 12-2-2019)
10-2-4: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Establishment: The A, agricultural district is hereby established in
the city of Princeton.
   B.   District Description: The A district is established to provide for
agricultural activities and to serve as a “holding designation” for lands,
pending rezoning to another zoning district consistent with the comprehensive
plan.
   C.   Allowed Uses: Uses are allowed in accordance with the use table in
section
10-3-1 of this title.
   D.   Dimensional Standards: All development in the agricultural district
must comply with the dimensional standards in section
10-4-2 of this title.
   E.   Additional Requirements: All uses in the agricultural district must
comply with the operational performance standards in section
10-2-5 of this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-2-5: OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All uses in all districts must comply with the following standards unless any
local, state or federal regulation establishes a more restrictive standard, in
which case, the more restrictive standard applies:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Applicability: No activity or use may be conducted in a manner that
generates a level of sound greater than that allowed by this subsection. These
regulations do not apply to the following:
         a.   Noises not directly under the control of the property owner or
tenant;
         b.   Noises from safety signals, warning devices or emergency pressure
release valves;
         c.   Noises from construction and maintenance activities between seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. and nine o’clock (9:00) p.m.; and
         d.   Noises from moving sources such as automobiles, trucks, railroads
and airplanes.
      2.   Maximum Noise Levels:
Center Frequency
(Cycles Per Second) Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level (Decibels)
Center Frequency
(Cycles Per Second) Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level (Decibels)
31.5                76
63                  71
125                 65
250                 67
500                 50
1,000               45
2,000               39
4,000               34
8,000               32
 
   B.   Heat And Vibration: No heat or vibration from any use may be detectable
at any point beyond the property line of the lot where the use is located.
   C.   Dust And Air Pollution:
      1.   Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from sources
such as storage areas, yards, roads and conveying equipment must be kept to a
minimum by appropriate landscaping, screening, sheltering, paving, fencing,
wetting, collecting or other means. No particulate matter may be visible to an
observer looking directly upward at any point beyond the property line.
      2.   This requirement does not apply when the wind speed is greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour. Determination of wind speed will be by a one
hour average or hourly recorded value at the nearest official station of the
U.S. weather bureau or by wind speed instruments operated on the site.
   D.   Discharge And Disposal Of Radioactive And Hazardous Waste: The
discharge of fluid and the disposal of solid radioactive and hazardous waste
materials must comply with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
No operation that produces radioactive or hazardous waste material may occur
without prior notice to the zoning administrator. Notice must be given at least
three (3) weeks before the operation begins. Radioactive and hazardous material
waste must be transported, stored and used in conformance with all applicable
local, state and federal regulations.
   E.   Electromagnetic Interference: Electromagnetic interference may not
adversely affect the operation of any equipment located beyond the property
line of the lot where the interference originates.
   F.   Odors: The release of odorous or potentially odorous, either by
bacterial decomposition or chemical reaction, that is perceptible from beyond
the property line is prohibited.
   G.   Toxic Substances: The storage, handling or transport of toxic
substances must comply with all state of Illinois pollution control board
requirements and all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
   H.   Water Pollution: All uses must comply with the state of Illinois
pollution control board rules and regulations, 35 Illinois administrative code,
subtitle C, “Water Pollution”, and all applicable local, state and federal
regulations.
   I.   Fire And Explosion Hazards: Materials that present potential fire and
explosion hazards must be transported, stored and used only in conformance with
all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
1-4A-11 of this code for prepayment fine in lieu of court appearance
CHAPTER 3: USE REGULATIONS
Section
10-3-1: Use Table
10-3-2: Use Specific Standards
10-3-3: Accessory Uses And Structures
10-3-4: Temporary Uses
10-3-1: USE TABLE:
   A.   Use Groups: The use table classifies land uses into five (5) major
groupings: residential, public and civic, commercial, industrial, agricultural
and other. These are referred to as “use groups”.
   B.   Use Categories: Each use group is further divided into “use
categories”. These categories classify land uses based on common
characteristics, such as the type of products sold, site conditions, or the
amount of activity on the site. Use categories are described in detail in
section
10-14-1 of this title. Some use categories are further divided into specific
use types, which are also described in section
10-14-1 of this title.
   C.   Determination Of Land Use Category: When a land use cannot be
classified into a use category or appears to fit into multiple categories, the
zoning administrator is authorized to determine the most appropriate use
category.
   D.   Permitted Uses: Uses identified with a “P” in the use table are
permitted by right in the designated zoning districts, subject to compliance
with all other applicable provisions of this title.
   E.   Special Uses: Uses identified with an “S” in the use table may be
allowed in the designated zoning districts if approved in accordance with the
special use approval procedure of section
10-11-5 of this title. Approved special uses are subject to compliance with all
other applicable provisions of this title. If a proposed use meets the
character of the established district in which it is proposed, as determined by
the zoning administrator, it may be approved in accordance to the special use
procedure of section
10-11-5 of this title.
   F.   Prohibited Uses: Uses identified with a “-” in the use table are
expressly prohibited. Uses not listed in the use table are also prohibited.
   G.   Use Standards: The “use standard” column in the use table provides a
cross reference to additional standards that apply to some uses, whether or not
they are allowed as a permitted use or special use.
 RE R1A R1 R2 R3 B1 B2 B3 B4 M1 M2 A Use Standard
                                                           RE R1A R1 R2 R3 B1 B2 B3 B4 M1 M2 A Use
                                                                                               Standard
Residential uses:
   Household living:
      Single-family dwelling, detached               P  P   P  P  P  -  -  P  -  -  -  P
      Single-family dwelling, attached               -  -   -  -  P1 -  -  P  -  -  -  - 10-3-2A
      Two-family conversion of single-family dwelling-  S   S  S  S  -  -     -  -  -  - 10-3-2B
      Two-family dwelling (duplex)                   -  -   -  P  P  -  -  P  -  -  -  -
      Multi-family dwelling (3+ units)               -  -   -  -  P1 -  -  P  -  -  -  -
      Manufactured home park                         -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 10-3-2H
      Dwelling units located above the ground floor  -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
      Accessory dwelling unit                        S  S   S  S  S        S
      Employee living quarters                       -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P
   Group living:
      Assisted living                                -  -   -  S  S  -  P  P  -  -  -  -
      Community residence, small                     P  P   P  P  P  -  -  P  -  -  -  - 10-3-2G
      Community residence, large                     S  S   S  S  S  -  -  S  -  -  -  - 10-3-2G
      Nursing care facility                          -  -   -  -  S  -  P  P  -  -  -  -
      Transitional living                            -  -   -  -  S  -  S  -  -  -  -  -
      Group living not otherwise classified          S  S   S  S  S  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Public and civic uses:
   College or university                                -  -   -  -  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  -
   Cultural exhibit or library                          S  S   S  S  S  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Daycare:
      Daycare home                                   P  P   P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
      Daycare center                                 -  -S  -  -  -S P  P  P  P  P  P  -
   Hospital                                             -  S   -  -  S  S  S  S  S  -  -  -
   Parks and recreation                                 P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  S
   Place of public assembly                             -  -   -  -  -  S  S  S  S  -  -  -
   Post office                                          S  S   S  S  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  S
   Public safety services                               S  S   S  S  S  S  P  P  P  P  P  S
   Religious assembly                                   S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  -  -  -
   School                                               S  S   S  S  S  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Social club or lodge                                 -  -   -  -  -  S  S  S  S  -  -  -
   Utilities:
      Major                                          S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
      Minor                                          P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Commercial uses:
   Adult use                                            -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  - 10-3-2D
   Animal services:
      Kennel                                         -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  S  -  -  S
      Veterinary services                            -  -   -  -  -  P  P  -  P  P  -  -
   Art gallery                                          -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Banks and financial services:
      Banks                                          -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
      Payday loan store                              -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  -  -  -
      Consumer loan establishment                    -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  -  -  -
      Pawnshop                                       -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  S  -  -  -
   Body art services                                    -  -   -  -  -  S  S  -  S  -  -  -
   Business support service                             -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Commercial campground facility                       S  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S
   Construction sales and service                       -  -   -  -  -  -S -S -  P  P  P  -
   Eating and drinking establishment:
      Restaurant                                     -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
      Tavern                                         -  -   -  -  -  P  P  -  P  -  -  -
   Entertainment and spectator sports:
      Indoor                                         -  -   -  -  -  P  P  -  P  P  -  -
      Outdoor                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  S  S  -  -
   Funeral and interment services:
      Cemetery                                       S  S   S  S  S  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
      Cremating                                      -  -   -  -  -  S  S  S  S  S  -S -
      Funeral home                                   -  S   S  S  S  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Gaming/wagering facility                             -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  -  -  -  -
   Gas station                                          -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  -  -  - 10-3-2F
   Lodging:
      Bed and breakfast                              S  S   S  S  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  P 14-3-2E
      Boarding house                                 -  -   -  -  S  S  S  S  -  -  -  -
      Hotel or motel                                 -  -   -  -  -  P  P  -  P  -  -  -
   Medical or dental clinic                             -  S   S  S  S  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Miniwarehouse                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  S  P  P  -
   Office                                               -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  -
   Personal and consumer service                        -  -   -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Retail sales                                         -  -   -  -  -  P  P  S  P  S  -S -
   Sports and recreation, participant:
      Outdoor                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  -  S  S  -
      Indoor                                         -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  P  P  -
   Vehicle sales and service:
      Car wash                                       -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  -  -  -
      Motor vehicle repair, major                    -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  S  P  P  - 10-14-1C
      Motor vehicle repair, minor                    -  -   -  -  -  S  P  -  P  P  P  - 10-14-1C
      Light equipment and vehicle sales or rental    -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  P  P  -
      Heavy equipment sales or rental                -  -   -  -  -  -     -  P  P  P  -
      Vehicle, recreational vehicle or boat storage/t-wi-g  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P  -
Industrial uses:
   Manufacturing, production and industrial service:
      Limited                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P  P  - 10-14-1D
      General                                        -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P  - 10-14-1D
   Indoor commercial horticulture                       -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P  P 10-14-1D
   Research laboratory                                  -  -   -  -  -  -  P  -  P  P  P  -
   Trucking/freight terminal                            -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  -
   Warehousing and wholesaling                          -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P  P  -
   Waste related use:
      Junkyard                                       -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  -
      Recycling facility                             -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  -
      Sanitary landfill                              -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  -
Agricultural uses:
   Farming                                              -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Other uses:
   Accessory use                                        P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P 10-3-3
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization         -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization          -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization           -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization              -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization           -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization         -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  S  S  - 10-11-4
   Drive-through facilities                             -  -   -  -  -  -  P  S  P  S  -  - 10-3-3B
   Home occupation                                      P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  P 10-3-3C
   Parking:
      Accessory parking                              P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
      Nonaccessory parking                           -  -   -  -  -  S  S  -  S  -  -  -
   Planned developments                                 S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
   Solar energy collection                              P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
   Wireless communication facility:
      Freestanding                                   -  -   -  -  -  -  S  -  S  S  S  S 10-3-2I
      Collocated                                     P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P 10-3-2I
Note:
1.Subject to the design review procedures of section
10-11-8 of this title.
 
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; Ord. O-19-025, 12-2-2019; Ord.
O-20-006, 6-1-2020; Ord. O-21-018, 8-2-2021; Ord. O-22-016, 9-19-2022)
10-3-2: USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   A.   Single-Family Dwelling, Attached: Attached single-family dwelling units
must comply with the following requirements.
      1.   Number Of Units Per Building: No more than eight (8) attached
single-family dwelling units are permitted within a single building.
      2.   Number Of Buildings Per Lot: Multiple buildings containing attached
single-family dwellings are permitted on a single zoning lot.
      3.   Building Separation: Attached dwellings must meet the requirements
for permitted encroachments in subsection
10-4-3J of this title. Minimum separation between multiple buildings on a lot
is required as follows:
 
Attached Single-Family Residential      Dimension
Building Separation Standard
Between 1 end wall and another end wall 10'
                                        30'; driveways, parking areas,
                                        walkways, and landscaping and permitted
                                        encroachments are allowed within the
Between 1 front or rear wall and        required separation area. This may be
another front or rear wall              reduced to 20' on the ground floor
                                        where garage doors face garage doors
                                        and are separated by an interior drive;
                                        provided, that upper story living
                                        spaces are separated by 30'
                                        20'; driveways, parking areas,
Between 1 end wall and 1 front or rear  walkways, and landscaping, and
wall                                    permitted encroachments are allowed
                                        within the required separation area
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1677.png]
 
       4.   Building Design: Attached single-family dwellings must:
         a.   Be designed with windows and/or doors on all building facades
that face a street to avoid the appearance of blank walls; and
         b.   Be designed with garage doors facing an alley, where there is an
alley serving the site, or facing an interior driveway whenever possible. Where
garages face a public street, they may not extend beyond the street facing
facade.
      5.   Driveway Access:
         a.   Attached single-family dwellings must be served by a common
access drive, rather than separate driveway curb cuts where garages face a
public street.
         b.   Driveways leading from a street to a garage must be of sufficient
depth to ensure that parked vehicles do not overhang the sidewalk or public
street. The distance between the sidewalk and the garage must be at least
twenty feet (20').
      6.   Private Yards:
         a.   Attached single-family dwellings must provide private yards a
minimum of two hundred (200) square feet in area for each attached single-
family dwelling unit.
         b.   A private yard may be located next to a front wall, rear wall or
end wall; provided, that it is immediately adjacent to the attached single-
family dwelling unit it serves and is directly accessible from the unit by way
of a door or steps.
         c.   Required private yards must be landscaped with turf, ground
cover, shrubs, trees or other landscape improvements, such as walkways or
patios.
         d.   Private yards may be enclosed with fences.
      7.   Common Open Space:
         a.   In developments with thirty (30) or more attached single-family
dwelling units, one hundred fifty (150) square feet of common open space must
be provided per unit.
         b.   Common open space must be accessible to all attached single-
family dwelling units and improved with landscaping, recreational facilities
and/or pedestrian walkways.
         c.   Common open space must be maintained by a homeowners’
association.
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings Converted To Two-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Only those single-family dwellings existing on January 1, 1969, may
be converted to two-family dwellings.
      2.   Converted dwellings must maintain the appearance of single-family
dwellings.
      3.   Converted dwellings must meet the parking requirements of chapter 5
of this title through existing garages and driveways.
      4.   Two (2) separate entrances may be permitted when the dwelling is
located on a corner lot, subject to the site plan review procedure of section
10-11-7 of this title.
   C.   Accessory Dwelling Unit:
      1.   Dwelling unit shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet.
      2.   Shall be located on a minimum ten thousand (10,000) square foot
parcel that includes the primary structure.
      3.   Shall not exceed one (1) bedroom.
      4.   Must meet the parking requirements of chapter 5 of this title.
      5.   Unit shall not be rented to unrelated individuals when located in
single-family districts.
      6.   Shall be located in rear yard and set back at least ten feet (10')
from rear and side property lines.
   D.   Adult Use:
      1.   Locational Criteria: Adult uses cannot be located on any site that
is:
         a.   Within five hundred feet (500') of another existing adult use;
         b.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of the boundary of a
residential zoning district or existing residential use; or
         c.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any existing school or
religious assembly use.
      2.   Measurement: For the purposes of this subsection, distances will be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects from the nearest point on the property line on the site on which the
adult use exists or is proposed to the nearest point of any property line of a
residential use, residential district, school, religious assembly establishment
and/or any other adult use, as the case may be.
   E.   Bed And Breakfast: Bed and breakfast establishments must:
      1.   Be owner occupied if located in a residentially zoned district;
      2.   Have a maximum of eight (8) guestrooms;
      3.   Only serve meals to overnight guests, unless the bed and breakfast
is located on an arterial or collector street as defined by this title, then
meals can be served to a maximum of twenty five (25) people at any one time;
      4.   Provide sufficient off street parking as required by chapter 5 of
this title in a parking area located behind the front building line; and
      5.   Not include retail or other sales on the premises.
   F.   Gas Station: Gas stations must:
      1.   Have a minimum lot area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet;
      2.   Limit open storage to no more than four (4) vehicles stored for
minor repairs bearing current license plates. Such storage may not exceed
seventy two (72) hours’ duration and may not permit the storage of wrecked
vehicles;
      3.   Install lighting fixtures that are directed downward and shielded to
prevent glare on adjoining properties and roadways;
      4.   Install canopy lighting designed with recessed fixtures to prevent
glare on adjoining properties and roadways;
      5.   Locate and design curb cuts to ensure that they will not adversely
affect the safety and efficiency of traffic and pedestrian circulation on
adjoining streets. Curb cuts for new or expanded gas stations must be a minimum
of one hundred feet (100') apart on each street frontage; and
      6.   Only have accessory drive-through facilities subject to subsection
10-3-3B of this chapter.
   G.   Community Residences:
      1.   Community residences must be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other community residence, large or small, unless the spacing
requirement is waived in accordance with the special use procedure of section
10-11-5 of this title.
      2.   When requested, waivers must be granted when the decision making
body determines that the proposed community residence will not adversely affect
or be incompatible with the residential character of the neighborhood.
      3.   Each residence shall provide one parking space per employee present,
plus one space for each resident who owns and/or operates a motor vehicle. All
required parking shall be accommodated in the residence’s garage and driveway.
   H.   Manufactured Home Parks: Manufactured home parks must comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   More Restrictive Requirements Apply: Each park to be constructed,
altered or expanded under the provisions of this title must provide facilities
as required by the mobile home park act, being 210 ILCS 115, of the state of
Illinois and all applicable rules of the Illinois department of public health
and other state agencies. Where the requirements of this section conflict with
the requirements of the state of Illinois, the more restrictive requirements
will control. This section applies only to construction, alteration or
expansion of manufactured home parks and does not determine state licensing or
govern the operation of manufactured home parks.
      2.   Single Ownership Of Manufactured Home Parks: A manufactured home
park must be entirely owned by an individual, firm, trust, partnership, public
or private association or corporation. No lots may be individually sold.
      3.   Applications And Licensing Requirements; Inspections:
         a.   No person may construct, alter or expand a manufactured home park
unless they hold a valid permit from the state of Illinois that authorizes the
construction of a new, altered or expanded manufactured home park in accordance
with the mobile home park act.
         b.   A mobile home park may not be constructed, altered or expanded
without first obtaining a special use permit and a mobile home park permit,
according to the requirements of chapter 11 of this title.
         c.   No person may operate a manufactured home park unless they hold a
valid license issued by the city council upon completion of the park. The
operator of the manufactured home park must also maintain a valid license from
the state of Illinois.
         d.   The zoning administrator has the authority to conduct inspections
of the manufactured home park during and after construction to ensure
compliance with all requirements.
         e.   All state and local permits and licenses must be prominently
displayed in the office of the manufactured home park for which the permits and
licenses were issued.
      4.   Permitted Manufactured Homes: After the effective date specified in
section
10-1-2 of this title, only manufactured homes that were constructed after June
30, 1976, in accordance with the federal national manufactured housing
construction and safety standards act of 1974 are permitted to locate in a new
or existing manufactured home park.
      5.   Minimum Park Size: Manufactured home parks must be at least five (5)
acres in size. Any expansion of an existing manufactured home park that is
smaller than five (5) acres must bring the total area of the park up to five
(5) acres.
      6.   Dimensional Requirements:
         a.   All manufactured home parks must meet the following dimensional
requirements:
Standard Dimension
Standard                                                          Dimension
Minimum manufactured home space area                              4,000 sq. ft.
Minimum manufactured home space width                             50'
Minimum setback from public street right of way lines             35'
Minimum setback from other property lines                         15'
Separation between manufactured homes                             30'
Separation between manufactured homes and unattached accessory    10'
structures (on the same or another site)
Separation between manufactured homes and accessory structures to
other manufactured home park structures such as service or        30'
community buildings, laundry buildings and park offices
Separation between manufactured home and internal street          15'
pavement, parking areas or common areas
 
         b.   In measuring the minimum separation between manufactured homes,
measurements will be taken from the outermost projection of the manufactured
home or from any attached accessory structure, such as decks, stairs, stoops,
porches, attached carports and any other structure that is not separated from
the manufactured home by at least ten feet (10').
      7.   Manufactured Home Stands:
         a.   Each manufactured home stand must consist of four inch (4")
reinforced concrete and be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') wide by fifty five
feet (55') long.
         b.   Wheels and hitches must not be removed from manufactured home
units.
         c.   All manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance with the
mobile home tiedown act, 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120, and all applicable
state requirements.
      8.   Resident Storage:
         a.   In manufactured home parks constructed after the effective date
specified in section
10-1-2 of this title, a minimum of eighty (80) square feet/three hundred (300)
cubic feet of storage space must be provided by the owner or operator for each
manufactured home within the park. This required storage space may be located
within a central, community storage building, or in enclosed individual storage
structures on each manufactured home site. On site storage structures must meet
the setback and separation requirements for accessory structures and may not
exceed eight feet (8') in height. All accessory storage structures must be
constructed of a fireproof material. Additional storage buildings are not
permitted on manufactured home sites when the required storage space is
provided either within a community building or on site storage structure.
         b.   In manufactured home parks constructed prior to the effective
date specified in section
10-1-2 of this title, each manufactured home resident may construct his or her
own storage space. Manufactured home spaces within parks that were not provided
with the required storage space may construct one (1) storage structure up to
eighty (80) square feet in area, three hundred (300) cubic feet in volume, and
eight feet (8') in height. The structure must be completely detached from the
manufactured home, portable, and only used for storage purposes. All other
enclosed or unenclosed accessory storage structures are prohibited.
      9.   Internal Street System:
         a.   General Requirements: All internal streets must be privately
owned and maintained by the park owner. For the purposes of this subsection,
all streets providing vehicular access within the park will be referred to as
the “park street system”.
         b.   Primary Entrance Road: The primary entrance road connecting the
park street system with a public street must have a minimum pavement width of
twenty seven feet (27').
         c.   Secondary Entrance Road: All parks of twenty (20) or more acres
in size and/or parks that can accommodate one hundred fifty (150) or more
manufactured homes must also have at least one secondary entrance road
connecting the park street system with a public street. All secondary roads
must have a minimum pavement width of twenty four feet (24').
         d.   Separation Between Park Entrances: Where primary and secondary
entrance roads connect to the same public street, they must be at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') apart.
         e.   Interior Streets: All interior streets in the park street system
must have a minimum pavement width of twenty four feet (24') if on street
parking is prohibited on both sides and thirty six feet (36') if on street
parking is permitted. Cul-de-sacs may not exceed three hundred feet (300') in
length and must be designed at the closed end with a turnaround having an
outside roadway diameter of at least fifty feet (50').
         f.   Street Construction And Design Standards:
            (1)   Pavement Materials: All streets must be surfaced with seven
inch (7") reinforced concrete or asphalt B-4 mix three inches (3") thick on top
of eight inches (8") of crushed stone or gravel.
            (2)   Pavement Design: Primary and secondary entrance roads must be
constructed in accordance with city construction specifications for public
streets, including those for curb and gutter systems. The internal park street
systems may be built to the city’s construction standards for alleys.
            (3)   Grade: The grades of all streets must be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but may not be more than eight percent (8%). Short
runs with a maximum grade of twelve percent (12%) may be permitted, provided
traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving, adequate leveling areas and
avoidance of lateral curves.
            (4)   Intersections: Streets within the park street system must be
at approximately right angles within one hundred feet (100') of an
intersection. Offset streets must be at least one hundred fifty feet (150')
apart. Intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point should be
avoided.
            (5)   Other City Standards: All streets within the park street
system must be designed and constructed in accordance with all other applicable
city standards for sight distance and horizontal and vertical curve systems.
      10.   Parking: A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces must be
provided per manufactured home site. The size and paving of each parking space
must comply with the requirements of chapter 5 of this title.
      11.   Pedestrian Access:
         a.   General Requirements: All parks must provide a safe, convenient
system of walkways that connect individual manufactured home spaces, the park
street system and community facilities. In this subsection, all walkways that
provide pedestrian access within the park will be referred to as the “park
walkway system”.
         b.   Common Walkways: Common walkways that generally follow the park
street system and provide connections to recreation areas and community
facilities must be provided in all parks. Common walkways must be a minimum of
five feet (5') wide. These walkways must connect to the public sidewalk system
at park entrances (where there are public sidewalks). The city may only require
common walkways on one side of the streets in the park street system.
         c.   Walkways Connecting Manufactured Home Spaces: All manufactured
home spaces must be connected to the park walkway system by one or more
walkways. Walkways that connect manufactured home spaces to common walkways
within the park must have a minimum width of two feet (2').
         d.   Surface Materials: The park walkway system must be constructed of
four inch (4") concrete.
      12.   Lighting: All parks must be constructed with sufficient electrical
systems and lighting units that allow for the safe movement of pedestrians and
vehicles at night. Lighting of streets and community buildings and facilities
within the park must provide an average illumination level of at least 0.6
foot-candles and a minimum illumination level of 0.3 foot-candles. All exterior
lighting within the manufactured home park must be installed and maintained by
the operator of the park.
      13.   Street Trees: Street trees must be planted within ten feet (10') of
the street pavement edge. They may be located either between a common walkway
and the street or inside the common walkway where it abuts the street. Required
street trees must be planted at a rate of at least one (1) tree per
manufactured home space. Trees must be a minimum two inch (2") caliper in size.
Regardless of location, all street trees must be installed and maintained by
the operator of the park, upon completion of the park street and walkway
system.
      14.   Recreation Areas: All parks must contain one (1) or more recreation
areas that are as centrally located as possible, free of traffic hazards, and
easily accessible to all park residents. In larger manufactured home parks,
some decentralization of recreation areas may be permitted. The size of the
recreation areas is based upon a minimum of five hundred (500) square feet for
each manufactured home space in the park. Each park must provide a minimum of
one (1) acre of outdoor recreation area, regardless of the number of
manufactured home spaces. Recreation areas may consist of the following:
         a.   Sufficient space for community buildings, facilities, playing
fields and open space for active and passive adult, senior citizen and child
oriented recreational uses.
         b.   Suitable landscaping, fencing and seating areas.
         c.   Pedestrian walkways that connect recreation areas to the park
walkway system.
         d.   Swimming pools, provided they are fenced and secured when not in
active use to prevent unauthorized entry. Fencing or other artificial
enclosures must completely enclose the pool area.
         e.   Swimming pools must be constructed and maintained in accordance
with the requirements of the state department of public health.
      15.   Service Buildings And Community Facilities: Management offices,
repair shops, common storage areas, laundry facilities, indoor recreation
buildings, and commercial uses that provide essential goods and services
exclusively to park residents are allowed as accessory uses and must be
constructed to meet all applicable city building code requirements.
      16.   Site Drainage And Stormwater Management: Every park to be
constructed under the provisions of this chapter must meet the following
standards:
         a.   Sites proposed to be utilized for manufactured home parks must be
adequately protected against flooding. Manufactured homes in floodplain areas
must be constructed in accordance with section
10-8-8 of this title.
         b.   The ground surface of every park must be graded and equipped to
drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner. Manufactured home parks
are required to meet the stormwater management requirements of section
10-9-14 of this title.
         c.   Adequate provisions must be made for sewer facilities as
specified in this subsection.
      17.   Slope Protection: Adequate protective barriers must be provided and
maintained where there is a slope in excess of forty five degrees (45°) and a
change in elevation of six feet (6') or more. Such barriers may include, but
are not limited to, continuous shrubs or fencing.
      18.   Erosion Control:
         a.   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every park must be
landscaped, paved or covered with other solid material that is capable of
preventing soil erosion and the emanation of dust during dry weather.
         b.   Where the topography has a slope of twenty five percent (25%) or
more, a rip wall cribbing or other approved system of soil and slope
stabilization must be installed and maintained.
      19.   Landscaping And Screening: All manufactured home parks must be
screened with a ten foot (10') wide buffer strip along all property lines,
except those abutting the public right of way. Where effective visual barriers
do not already exist along property boundary lines, the required buffer strip
must be furnished with screening that is at least six feet (6') in height.
Screening elements can consist of landscaping, berming, fences and/or walls.
Where a fence, wall or berm is proposed, landscaping must be used to soften its
appearance within the required buffer strip. Where only landscaping is
utilized, it must consist of a dense planting of deciduous trees, evergreens
and shrubs that will provide year round screening at a minimum height of six
feet (6'). Fences or walls must not contain electrical charges, barbed wire,
broken glass or other material designed to inflict bodily harm.
      20.   Water Supply:
         a.   Generally: All manufactured home parks must be served by public
water supplies. All such public water supplies must be capable of providing a
sufficient supply of potable water under adequate pressure, to facilities for
manufactured homes, service buildings, fire hydrants, drinking fountains and
other accessory facilities required by the city. The public water supply system
must be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois department of public health, Illinois
environmental protection agency and all applicable city requirements.
         b.   Water Distribution System: The water distribution system must be
constructed of piping, fixtures and other equipment of approved materials. The
system must be designed and maintained to provide water pressure of not less
than twenty (20) pounds per square inch to each manufactured home, service
building and other locations requiring potable water supply.
         c.   Individual Water Connections:
            (1)   Individual water service connections and individual water
meters must be provided to each manufactured home space in the park. All water
service connections must be watertight and located at a minimum distance of
five feet (5') from sanitary sewer connections underground. The minimum pipe
size of connections is three-fourths inch (3/4"). Outlets must be constructed
to be free of possible contamination from surface drainage and damage during
installation of a manufactured home. Outlets must be four inches (4") above
grade.
            (2)   Adequate provisions must be made to prevent freezing of
service lines, valves and riser pipe, and to protect risers from ground heaving
and thawing actions during freezing weather.
            (3)   Underground stop and waste cocks must not be installed on any
connection.
         d.   Water Supply For Fire Protection: All parks must provide water
supply facilities. Hydrants must be located within two hundred feet (200') of
any manufactured home, service building and accessory structure and designed in
accordance with city specifications.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      21.   Sewage Disposal:
         a.   An adequate and safe sewage system must be provided in all
manufactured home parks for the conveying, treatment and disposal of sanitary
sewage. The facilities on the site must be designed and installed to connect to
the public sewer system with the approval of the engineer for the city. All
sewage systems must be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
Illinois department of public health, Illinois pollution control board, and all
other applicable state and city requirements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         b.   Each manufactured home site must be provided with a sewer
connection for the combined liquid waste outlet or outlets of each manufactured
home. It is the duty of the owner or operator of the manufactured home park to
provide an approved water and odor tight connection from the water drainage to
the sewer connection of each manufactured home, to make such connection, and
keep all occupied manufactured homes connected to the sewer while located in
the park. Sewer connections on unoccupied manufactured home sites must be
closed so that they will not emit odors or create a breeding place for flies.
No water or waste is allowed to fall on the ground from a manufactured home.
      22.   Electrical Distribution System: Electrical wiring systems in all
parks must consist of approved wiring, fixtures and equipment that are
installed and maintained in compliance with all applicable state and national
electrical codes. When feasible, all electrical wires must be located
underground.
      23.   Natural Gas System: Natural gas piping systems in all parks must be
installed and maintained in accordance with accepted engineering practices and
applicable requirements of the city.
      24.   Fuel Oil Supply Systems: Fuel oil supply systems provided for
manufactured homes, service buildings and other structures must be installed
and maintained in accordance with applicable requirements of the city.
Underground fuel oil systems must be located a minimum of ten feet (10')
horizontally from water lines and, at necessary crossings, must be placed in
pipe sleeves extending ten feet (10') from each side of the water pipe.
      25.   Modifications And Additions To Manufactured Homes:
         a.   General Requirements: All building, plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical connections, alterations or repairs in manufactured
home parks and on individual manufactured homes must be conducted in accordance
with the applicable requirements of the city.
         b.   Permanent Additions: Permanent building additions to a
manufactured home unit are prohibited. Roofed patios are permitted, provided
they are not physically attached to the manufactured home unit.
      26.   Occupancy Of Manufactured Homes: Occupancy of a manufactured home
is limited to the design capacity of the manufactured home. This is established
by the number of sleeping spaces provided in the manufactured home.
      27.   Refuse Storage And Collection: The owner or operator of the park
must provide adequate areas for refuse storage, collection and disposal. The
location of refuse storage areas and method of collection and disposal must be
provided at the time special use approval is granted.
      28.   Park Maintenance:
         a.   Pursuant to the regulations of this title, it is the
responsibility of the owner or operator of the manufactured home park to
maintain streets, curbing, pedestrian walkways and all community facilities.
         b.   It is the responsibility of the owner or operator of the
manufactured home park to provide for and enforce the general cleanliness of
the manufactured home park.
         c.   Abandoned vehicles must be removed from any manufactured home
park, at the park owner’s expense. An “abandoned vehicle” is an automobile or
other vehicle that is unlicensed or inoperative.
      29.   Enforcement: The zoning administrator is hereby granted the power
and authority to enter upon the premises of each manufactured home park at any
reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this title. Failure to conform to
the regulations of this title will be cause for revocation of the manufactured
home park license and enforcement action in accordance with chapter 13 of this
title.
   I.   Wireless Communication Facilities:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   All wireless communications facilities must meet or exceed
current standards and regulations of the federal communication commission
(FCC), federal aviation administration (FAA) and any other agency of the
federal government authorized to regulate wireless communications facilities.
         b.   Wireless communications facilities must be designed so as not to
cause interference with radio, television or other electric appliances.
         c.   Wireless communications facilities must be designed, constructed
and installed to minimize their aesthetic impact on adjoining properties. The
design of wireless communications facilities must, to the maximum extent
possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that will
blend the tower and associated equipment with the surrounding area.
         d.   All wireless communications towers must be painted a neutral
color to avoid visual obtrusiveness.
         e.   Towers and antennas may not be artificially lighted unless
mandated by the FAA or other applicable authority.
         f.   No off premises signs are permitted on a wireless communications
facility, except for collocated facilities attached to an existing and approved
sign or its support structure. Wireless communications facilities may have
safety or warning signs in appropriate locations.
      2.   Preferred Sites: When a wireless provider is considering locations
for wireless communications facilities, city owned sites are considered
preferred sites. Prior to applying for a building permit or a special use
permit, the provider must contact the city to determine whether there is a city
owned site or facility available that would meet its locational criteria.
      3.   Collocation Of Antenna On Existing Structures:
         a.   Antenna Design: The antenna and associated equipment of such a
collocated facility must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely
compatible with, the color of the supporting structure or building so as to
make the antenna and associated equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
         b.   Collocation On An Existing Wireless Communication Facility:
Installation of a wireless antenna and associated equipment on an existing
wireless communication facility is a permitted use in all zoning districts.
         c.   Collocation By Attachment To An Existing Structure: This
subsection addresses the installation of a tower or antenna on an existing
structure, other than a wireless communication facility tower, including, but
not limited to, buildings, light poles, water towers, commercial signs, church
steeples and any other freestanding structures. Installation of a wireless
antenna and associated equipment on an existing structure, other than an
existing wireless communication facility, is a permitted use in all zoning
districts, subject to site plan review. Where the facility is proposed on a
city owned structure, the development review committee has the authority to
forward the site plan to the city council for review and approval.
Such collocated facilities, including associated equipment and accessory
structures, are subject to the following minimum standards:
            (1)   R, B1 And B3 Districts: In the residential (R) districts and
the B1 and B3 districts, such collocated facilities may not extend above the
highest point of the existing structure by more than:
               (A)   Ten feet (10'), if the structure is up to forty feet (40')
in height; or
               (B)   Fifteen feet (15'), if the structure is more than forty
feet (40') in height.
            (2)   Other B, M, And A Districts: In all business (B) districts
other than those specified in subsection I3c(1) of this section; the
manufacturing (M) districts; and the agriculture (A) district; such collocated
facilities may not extend above the highest point of the existing structure by
more than fifteen feet (15').
            (3)   City Owned Sites: The height of collocated facilities on city
owned sites or facilities may not extend above the highest point of the
existing structure by more than fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Freestanding Facilities: Freestanding facilities require special use
approval. An application for a freestanding facility must include an affidavit
of intent committing the site owner, his or her successors and assigns, the
operator, and his or her successors and assigns to allow the shared use of the
proposed tower and to offer at least one potential additional user reasonable
terms and conditions for collocation. Failure to abide by such commitment
constitutes a violation of this title and may result in revocation of the
building permit associated with the facility.
         a.   Demonstration Of Need: Special use approval may not be granted
unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the plan
commission and city council that no existing facility or structure can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed facility. Evidence submitted to
demonstrate that no existing facility or structure can accommodate the
applicant’s proposed facility may consist of any of the following:
            (1)   No existing wireless communication facilities are located
within the geographic area required to meet the applicant’s engineering
requirements.
            (2)   Existing wireless communication facilities are not of
sufficient height to meet the applicant’s engineering requirements.
            (3)   Existing wireless communication facilities do not have
sufficient structural strength to support the applicant’s proposed antenna and
associated equipment.
            (4)   The applicant’s proposed facility would cause electromagnetic
interference with an antenna on the existing tower, or vice versa.
            (5)   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing wireless communication facility, or to
adapt an existing wireless communication facility for sharing, are
unreasonable. Costs exceeding new facility development are presumed to be
unreasonable.
         b.   Maximum Height: No freestanding facility may have a maximum
height that is more than two hundred feet (200'). Within the two hundred foot
(200') height limit, the facility must accommodate collocation of other
facilities. Freestanding facilities located on city owned sites will have a
height limit that is imposed by the city council.
         c.   Setbacks:
            (1)   In business and agriculture districts, freestanding
facilities must be set back a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the rear
property line and twenty feet (20') from the front and side property lines. On
a corner lot, the twenty foot (20') setback requirement applies to both
property lines fronting on the public right of way.
            (2)   In manufacturing districts, freestanding facilities must be
set back a minimum of thirty feet (30') from a property line that serves as a
common boundary line between an M and an R district, ten feet (10') from side
property lines, and twenty feet (20') from any public right of way lines. On a
corner lot, the twenty foot (20') setback requirement applies to both property
lines fronting on the public right of way.
         d.   Number Of Towers Per Zoning Lot: There may be no more than one
freestanding facility per zoning lot.
         e.   Tower Design: Towers must be of monopole construction
(cylindrical, tapering steel tubes without guywires or lattice design). Towers
must be constructed so that if a failure does occur, the tower will collapse
into itself and will not fall onto structures near the site.
         f.   Security Fencing: Freestanding facilities must be enclosed by
security fencing not less than six feet (6') in height and must also be
equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device. The anti- climbing device
may not include barbed wire, razor wire or similar sharp barrier.
         g.   Landscaping:
            (1)   Wireless communication facilities must be landscaped with a
buffer of plant materials that effectively screens the view of the base of the
tower and associated equipment from residential properties that are adjacent to
or across the street from the site.
            (2)   The standard buffer must consist of a landscape strip at
least five feet (5') wide outside the perimeter of the facility. In locations
where the visual impact of the facility would be minimal, the landscaping
requirement may be reduced or waived altogether.
            (3)   Existing mature trees (more than three (3) inches in
diameter) and natural landforms on the site must be preserved to the maximum
extent possible. If mature trees are removed, the same number of trees must be
planted on the site within six (6) months following completion of the tower. In
some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around
the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.
         h.   Abandonment Or Discontinuation Of Use Of Facilities:
            (1)   At such time as the operator of a wireless communication
facility plans to abandon or discontinue operation of the facility, the
operator must notify the zoning administrator by certified mail of the proposed
date of abandonment or discontinuation of operation. Such notice must be given
no less than thirty (30) days before abandonment or discontinuation of
operation.
            (2)   In the event that the operator fails to give such notice, the
facility will be deemed abandoned upon such discontinuation of operation.
            (3)   Upon such abandonment or discontinuation of use, the operator
must physically remove the wireless communication facility within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use.
“Physically remove” includes, but is not limited to:
               (A)   Removal of tower, antennas, mount, equipment shelters or
platforms and security barriers from the subject property;
               (B)   Proper disposal of the waste materials from the site in
accordance with applicable solid waste disposal regulations; and
               (C)   Restoration of the location of the wireless communication
facility to its natural condition; except, that any landscaping and grading
must remain.
            (4)   In the event that the operator fails to remove a wireless
communication facility in accordance with the provisions of this section, upon
the city’s provision of thirty (30) days’ written notice to the operator, the
city or its agents have the authority to enter the subject property and
physically remove the facility. The operator of the facility, or the owner if
different from the operator, is liable to the city for all costs associated
with entry and removal. This liability will be collectible in the same manner
as any other personal liability.
         i.   Review And Approval Procedures:
            (1)   A building permit is required for each wireless communication
facility installation.
            (2)   When a wireless communication facility requires special use
approval, such approval must be obtained before any building permit may be
issued.
            (3)   Each applicant requesting a permit for a wireless
communication facility must submit with the application a scaled site plan and
a scaled elevation view and other supporting drawings, calculations and other
documentation, signed and sealed by appropriate licensed professionals,
showing:
               (A)   The location and dimension of all improvements;
               (B)   Information concerning topography;
               (C)   Radio frequency coverage;
               (D)   Tower height requirements and setbacks;
               (E)   Drives, parking, fencing, landscaping and adjacent uses;
and
               (F)   Any other information deemed by the zoning administrator
to be necessary to assess compliance with this title.
            (4)   Approved wireless communication facilities may be transferred
to successors and assigns of the approved party, subject to all of the
conditions that apply to initial approval.
         j.   Waiver: In reviewing a special use request, the plan commission
and city council may waive any of the nonfederally mandated requirements of
this subsection pertaining to height limitations, setback requirements, and
landscaping if it determines that the goals of this subsection are better
served thereby.
            (1)   The setback requirements may be modified if the applicant
shows, to the satisfaction of the plan commission and city council, that such
modification will result in a reduction of the visual impact of the wireless
communication facility.
            (2)   The height requirements may be modified if the applicant
shows, to the satisfaction of the plan commission and city council, that
additional height is necessary to enable the applicant to meet its service
coverage requirements, and the facility will be constructed to safely and
effectively accommodate collocation of one or more wireless communication
facilities.
            (3)   The landscaping requirements may be modified if the applicant
shows, to the satisfaction of the plan commission and city council, that the
required landscaping is unnecessary for screening purposes, due to the proposed
location of the facility and lack of visibility from neighboring properties
and/or public right of way.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
10-3-3: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Unless otherwise expressly stated in this title, accessory uses and
structures are permitted in conjunction with allowed principal uses.
      2.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted only after the principal
structure is present or under construction.
      3.   Accessory uses and structures must be located on the same zoning lot
as the principal building or use; be subordinate to the principal use or
structure in terms of area, extent and purpose; and contribute to the comfort,
convenience or necessity of the principal use or structure. The zoning
administrator is authorized to determine whether a use or structure meets the
definition of accessory use or structure.
      4.   No accessory use or structure may occupy more than sixty percent
(60%) of the combined area of required rear and side setbacks, or more than
sixty percent (60%) of any individual side or rear setback. Garages may not
cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the combined area of required rear and
side setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1679.png]
 
Example: Calculations based on area of required setbacks, not existing yards.
      5.   Accessory structures must be set back at least five feet (5') from
all property lines.
      6.   Accessory structures must be set back at least ten feet (10') from
any other structure. The setback may be reduced to five feet (5') for accessory
structures located in the rear of the principal structure.
      7.   No accessory structure located in a required rear setback may exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height.
      8.   Accessory structures must comply with all dimensional requirements
of this chapter and chapter 4 of this title.
      9.   No more than one of each type of accessory structure will be
permitted on a zoning lot.
      10.   Carports are only permitted in accordance with this section when
they are securely attached to the principal building and constructed of like-
kind materials. Carports may also be permitted with detached garages when
constructed to share a roofline.
      11.   Accessory buildings over two hundred (200) square feet shall be
constructed on a concrete slab.
      12.   All types of prefabricated metal carports and garages are
prohibited.
   B.   Drive-Through Facilities: Drive-through facilities are permitted as an
accessory use in the districts indicated in the use table in section
10-3-1 of this chapter, subject to the following standards:
      1.   Vehicle Stacking Areas: Each drive-through facility must provide a
minimum of three (3) vehicle stacking spaces, a minimum of twenty feet (20') in
length per vehicle, in advance of the order box or service window, where a
separate order box is not present. Vehicle stacking areas may not interfere
with parking areas or the on site circulation of vehicles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1681.png]
 
      2.   Adjacent To Residential Districts:
         a.   Drive-through facilities, including stacking areas, must be
separated from residentially zoned property by at least forty feet (40').
         b.   Speaker systems used in conjunction with drive-through facilities
must be designed so that they are not audible at the property line abutting
residentially zoned property.
   C.   Home Occupations:
      1.   Generally: The following regulations are intended to ensure that
businesses conducted as subordinate to residential uses are not detrimental to
the surrounding neighborhood, and that the residential character of the
dwelling is maintained.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   The home occupation must be secondary and subordinate to the use
of the dwelling unit for residential purposes, and the residential character of
the dwelling must be maintained.
         b.   No alteration is permitted that would change the residential
character of the dwelling.
         c.   The activities conducted by the home occupation may not be
visible from outside the dwelling.
         d.   No signs are permitted, except as allowed by chapter 7 of this
title.
         e.   No commodities may be sold or services rendered that require
receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment other than by a
passenger motor vehicle, first class mail, or delivery services that commonly
serve residential neighborhoods.
         f.   No more than one person other than one additional member of the
immediate family of the owner and residing on the premises may be employed by
the home occupation use.
         g.   No home occupation may produce any noise, heat, vibration, dust,
air pollution, electromagnetic interference, odors or other hazards that are
detrimental to the safety and comfort of neighboring residences.
         h.   The following uses are prohibited as home occupations:
            (1)   Animal services, including kennels and veterinary services.
            (2)   Any repair of motor vehicles.
            (3)   Any use where commercial vehicles must be stored on the
premises.
            (4)   Construction or landscaping businesses where equipment must
be stored on the premises.
            (5)   Funeral and interment services such as cremating or funeral
homes.
            (6)   Restaurants.
            (7)   Warehousing.
   D.   Solar Energy Collection Structures:
      1.   Solar energy collection panels that are flat-mounted with the
existing or proposed roofline are permittable structures, upon an approved
building permit application. Solar energy collection panels that are stand-
alone on the lot must meet established setback, height and gross square footage
standards for accessory structures. Structures proposed for installation in a
declared historic district be invisible from view when viewed from the opposing
street sidewalk. Further stating that the owner is responsible to certify that
the roof truss system can accept the load of solar panels.
      2.   Owners of solar installations must follow the guidelines below:
         a.   Follow the minimum installation and labeling standards found in
the national electric code 2017;
         b.   Submit the public electric utility checklist to be submitted with
the application for interconnection with the utility grid;
         c.   Submit the building permit application for approval before
installation; all of which is collected in Exhibit A of Ord. O-20-006, attached
hereto and made a part hereof.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; Ord. O-20-006, 6-1-2020)
10-3-4: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Temporary Use Permits:
      1.   Permit Required: No temporary use may be established unless a
temporary use permit has been issued by the zoning administrator, demonstrating
the compliance with all of the temporary use requirements in this title.
      2.   Application: Applications for temporary use permits must be
submitted to the zoning administrator at least thirty (30) days before the date
of the event or start of the temporary use, unless this time frame is reduced
by the zoning administrator. The application must be accompanied by:
         a.   Signed, written permission from the owner of or the agency having
jurisdiction over the subject property; and
         b.   Any other information required by the zoning administrator to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this title and to otherwise ensure
that the proposed use will not have a significant adverse impact on the
surrounding area.
      3.   Approval And Revocation Of Permit: All temporary use permits are
subject to any conditions required by the zoning administrator, are revocable,
and compliance with all other provisions of this title is required.
   B.   Outdoor Seasonal Sales: Outdoor seasonal sales of products such as
pumpkins, Christmas trees or produce are permitted subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Outdoor seasonal sales may not operate more than a total of forty
five (45) days per calendar year. The owner or operator is required to keep a
record of days of operation, and make the record available upon request of the
zoning administrator.
      2.   The use may not involve the construction of a permanent structure.
      3.   Signs may be provided, subject to the regulations of the zoning
district in which the use is located.
      4.   All parking and sales activities must be located outside of the
public right of way.
      5.   Outdoor vendors on the public sidewalks are prohibited.
   C.   Outdoor Events: Outdoor events may be conducted in any zoning district
permitting public assembly uses, or on any lot occupied by a public or civic
use, subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Outdoor events are limited to seven (7) days per parcel per calendar
year. The owner or operator is required to keep a record of days of operation,
and make the record available upon request of the zoning administrator.
      2.   The use may not involve the construction of a permanent structure.
      3.   Signs may be provided, subject to the regulations of the zoning
district in which the use is located.
      4.   All event related activities must be located outside of the public
right of way.
   D.   Temporary Offices And Construction Equipment Storage: Real estate sales
offices, contractors’ offices and shelters for construction equipment and
building materials are permitted during construction projects; provided, that
they are located on the same lot as the building under construction, sleeping
or cooking facilities are not provided, and the offices or shelters are removed
within fourteen (14) days of the completion of the construction project.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
CHAPTER 4: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Section
10-4-1: Residential Districts
10-4-2: Nonresidential Districts
10-4-3: Measurements And Exceptions
10-4-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
 RE R1A R1 R2 R3
                                                                          RE     R1A    R1    R2    R3
                                                                          43,560
Minimum lot area, total (square feet)                                     (1     12,000 9,000 6,000 6,000
                                                                          acre)
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit (square feet):
   Single-family dwelling, detached                                    43,560 12,000 9,000 6,000 6,000
   Single-family dwelling, attached                                    n/a    n/a    n/a   n/a   2,500
   Two-family dwelling                                                 n/a    6,000  4,500 3,750 3,750
   Multi-family dwelling                                               n/a    n/a    n/a   n/a   1,500
Minimum living area (square feet):
   Single-family dwelling, detached                                    1,500  1,500  1,200 900   800
   Single-family dwelling, attached                                    n/a    n/a    n/a   n/a   800
   Two-family dwelling                                                 n/a    n/a    n/a   800   800
                                                                                                    500
   Multi-family dwelling                                               n/a    n/a    n/a   n/a   per
                                                                                                    unit
Minimum lot width (feet)                                                  150    90     75    60    451
Minimum setbacks (feet):
   Front (see also subsection                                          50     35     30    25    25
10-4-3E of this chapter)
   Rear                                                                50     30     30    25    25
   Interior side (percent of lot width, both sides combined/any single 20%/10 20%/   20%/  20%/  20%/
side, in feet)                                                                   7.5    7.5   7.5   7.52
                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                    plus 1
                                                                                                    foot
                                                                                                    per 2
   Corner side                                                         35     20     20    15    feet
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                    height
                                                                                                    above
                                                                                                    35
Maximum height, principal buildings (feet)3                               35     35     35    35    55
Maximum height, accessory buildings (feet)                                15     15     15    15    15
Maximum building coverage (percent)                                       25     25     30    35    50
Notes:
1. Minimum lot width for individual townhouse (attached single-family) lots is 20 feet.
2. No interior side setback required for attached single-family units; see subsection
10-3-2A of this title for other rules governing attached single-family dwellings.
3. Certain public and civic buildings are permitted to exceed maximum height requirements pursuant to
subsection
10-4-3L3 of this chapter.
 
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-4-2: NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Dimensional Standards:
 B1 B2 B3 B4 M1 M2 A
                      B1    B2    B3                   B4     M1  M2  A
Minimum lot area,     -     -     6,000                10,000 -   -   20 acres
total (square feet)
Minimum lot area per
dwelling unit (square 1,250 1,250 1,250                -      -   -   -
feet)
Minimum lot width     -     -     50                   -      -   -   -
(feet)
Minimum setbacks
(feet):
                                  Same as R2 (see also
   Front           01, 2 02    subsection           02     353 253 35
                                  10-4-3E of this
                                  chapter
   Rear            0     02    Same as R2           02     303 03  50
   Interior side   0     02    Same as R2           02     203 03  20
   Corner side     0     02    Same as R2           02     203 253 35
Maximum height,
principal and         45    50    35                   40     45  45  70
accessory buildings
(feet)
Maximum building      -     50    50                   75     50  60  25
coverage (percent)
Notes:
1.   All buildings in the B1 district must comply with the building location
standards of subsection
10-2-2E1 of this title.
2.   When a B zoned lot abuts a residentially zoned lot, special rules apply.
See subsection B of this section.
3.   When an M zoned lot abuts or is across the street from a residentially
zoned lot, special rules apply. See subsection C of this section.
4.   Certain public and civic buildings are permitted to exceed maximum height
requirements. See subsection
10-4-3L3 of this chapter.
 
   B.   B Zoned Lots Abutting R Zoned Lots:
      1.   Front Setback: Where a B1, B2 or B4 zoned lot shares a side property
line with an R zoned lot, the B1, B2 or B4 zoned lot must comply with the front
setback standards of the R zoned lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.png]
 
      2.   Rear Setback: Where a B2 or B4 zoned lot shares a rear property line
with an R zoned lot, the B2 or B4 zoned lot must comply with the rear setback
standards of the R zoned lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.png]
 
      3.   Interior Side Setback: Where a B2 or B4 zoned lot shares a side
property line with an R zoned lot, the B2 or B4 zoned lot must comply with the
side setback standards of the R zoned lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.png]
 
      4.   Corner Side Setback: Where a B2 or B4 zoned lot abuts a
residentially zoned lot, the corner side setback of the lot zoned B2 or B4 must
comply with the front or corner side setback of the abutting residential
district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.png]
 
   C.   M Zoned Lots Abutting R Zoned Lots:
      1.   Front Setback: Where an M zoned lot shares a side property line with
or is across a street from a residentially zoned lot, the minimum front setback
of the M zoned lot is seventy feet (70').
      2.   Rear Setback: Where an M zoned lot shares a rear property line with
a residentially zoned lot, the minimum side setback on the M zoned lot is sixty
feet (60').
      3.   Interior Side Setback: Where an M zoned lot shares an interior side
property line with a residentially zoned lot, the minimum side setback of the M
zoned lot is thirty feet (30').
      4.   Corner Side Setback:
         a.   Where an M1 zoned lot abuts a residentially zoned lot, the
minimum corner side setback of the M1 zoned lot is thirty feet (30').
         b.   Where an M2 zoned lot abuts a residentially zoned lot, the
minimum corner side setback of the M2 zoned lot is seventy feet (70').
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-4-3: MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Lot Area, Total:
      1.   Measurement: Lot area includes the total land area contained within
the property lines of a lot. No lot, yard, parking area, building area or other
space may be reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of
this title. No part of any lot, yard, parking area or other space required for
a structure or use may be used for any other structure or use on an adjoining
lot.
      2.   Exceptions For Nonconforming Lots Of Record: There are reduced
minimum lot area requirements for certain nonconforming lots of record. See
section
10-12-6 of this title for rules regarding nonconforming lots of record.
      3.   Exceptions For Lots Not Serviced By Public Sewers: On lots with on
site sewage disposal systems, the minimum lot area may be required to be
increased so the lot size is sufficient to permit the use of an on site sewage
disposal system designed in accordance with state of Illinois department of
public health requirements. The minimum lot area for an on site sewage disposal
system is established by the criteria included in chapter 9 of this title.
   B.   Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit:
      1.   Measurement: The lot area per dwelling unit refers to the minimum
amount of lot area that is required for each dwelling unit on the property. For
residential or mixed use development, dwelling unit density is controlled
through a minimum lot area per dwelling unit standard.
      2.   Rounding: When the number of dwelling units yielded by the density
calculation results in a fraction, the fraction must be rounded down to the
previous whole number. For example, if a minimum lot area per unit standard of
six thousand (6,000) square feet is applied to a fifteen thousand (15,000)
square foot lot, a maximum of two (2) dwelling units would be allowed on the
property.
   C.   Lot Width:
      1.   Measurement: Lot width is measured between side property lines at
the required front setback.
      2.   Exceptions For Nonconforming Lots Of Record: There are reduced
minimum lot width requirements for certain nonconforming lots of record. See
section
10-12-6 of this title for rules governing nonconforming lots of record.
   D.   Front Setback:
      1.   Measurement: The front setback is to be measured from the front
property line to the closest point of the structure on the subject lot. not
including those projections and features allowed to project into the from
setback pursuant to subsection J of this section. On a corner lot. the front
setback is to be measured from the properly line that abuts a street and is
generally parallel to the front of the building. For the purposes of this
subsection, the front of the building is the facade with the primary building
entrance. Where the location of the primary building entrance is unclear or two
(2) or more entrances are present, the final determination will be made by the
zoning administrator. Corner lots must adhere to front setback requirements on
both street-facing sides.
      2.   Use: Required setbacks must be unobstructed and unoccupied from the
ground to the sky except as expressly allowed in subsection J of this section.
      3.   Exception For Lots That Utilize Average Front Setback: As an
alternative to the front setback requirements of section
10-4-1 or
10-4-2 of this chapter, uses in all residential and B3 districts may determine
the required front setback based on the average front setback pursuant to
subsection E of this section.
   E.   Average Front Setback:
      1.   In all residential and B3 districts, as an alternative to the front
setback requirements of sections
10-4-1 and
10-4-2 of this chapter, the front setback may be reduced to the average front
setback whenever buildings exist on one or more adjoining lots.
      2.   Measurement: The front setback, as measured on the subject lot and
adjoining lots, is to be measured from the front property line to the closest
point of the structure on the respective lot, not including those projections
and features allowed to project into the front setback pursuant to subsection J
of this section. On a corner lot, the front setback is to be measured from the
property line that abuts a street and is generally parallel with the front of
the building. For the purposes of this subsection, the front of the building is
the facade with the primary building entrance.
When utilizing the average front setback, it must be at least as deep as the
average of the front setbacks on the two (2) lots on either side of the subject
lot, in accordance with the following rules:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.png]
 
         a.   Lots that are separated from the subject lot by a street or
railroad right of way cannot be used in computing the average. Lots that are
separated from the subject lot by an alley can be used in computing the
average.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.png]
 
    b.   When the subject lot is a corner lot that adjoins only one developed
lot, or an interior lot that adjoins one vacant lot and one developed lot, the
average front setback may be computed on the basis of the one adjoining
developed lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.png]
 
    c.   If the subject lot is a corner lot that only adjoins a vacant lot or
an interior lot that adjoins two (2) vacant lots, then the required front
setback must be the front setback required by section
10-4-1 or
10-4-2 of this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.png]
 
      3.   Use: Required setbacks must be unobstructed and unoccupied from the
ground to the sky except as expressly allowed in subsection J of this section.
   F.   Rear Setback:
      1.   Measurement: The rear setback is to be measured from the rear
property line to the closest point of the structure on the subject lot, not
including those projections and features allowed to project into the rear
setback pursuant to subsection J of this section. On pie shaped or triangular
lots with side property lines that come to a point at the rear, the rear
setback is measured from a line segment that connects the side property lines
and is a minimum of ten feet (10') in length.
      2.   Use: Required setbacks must be unobstructed and unoccupied from the
ground to the sky except as expressly allowed in subsection J of this section.
   G.   Interior Side Setback:
      1.   Measurement: The interior side setback is to be measured from the
interior side property line to the closest point of the structure on the
subject lot, not including those projections and features allowed to project
into the interior side setback pursuant to subsection J of this section.
      2.   Use: Required interior setbacks must be unobstructed and unoccupied
from the ground to the sky except as expressly allowed in subsection J of this
section.
   H.   Corner Side Setback:
      1.   Measurement: The corner side setback is to be measured from the side
property line that abuts a street to the closest point of the structure on the
subject lot, not including those projections and features allowed to project
into the corner side setback pursuant to subsection J of this section. The
corner side setback is measured from the side property line that abuts a
street, and is generally perpendicular to the front of the building. For the
purposes of this subsection, the front of the building is the facade with the
primary building entrance.
      2.   Use: Required corner setbacks must be unobstructed and unoccupied
from the ground to the sky except as expressly allowed in subsection J of this
section.
   I.   Through Lot Setbacks: On through lots, the two (2) property lines
(opposing) that abut public right of way lines are considered front property
lines and front setback requirements apply. Through lots with three (3)
property lines that abut public right of way lines will have two (2) front
property lines and one corner side property line where front and corner side
setback requirements apply, respectively. Rear setback standards do not apply.
   J.   Exceptions From Minimum Setback Requirements: Required setbacks must be
unobstructed and unoccupied from the ground to the sky; except, that certain
building features and structures are allowed to project into required setbacks
to the extent expressly indicated in the following table:
Obstruction/Projection
Into Required Setbacks Front And Corner Side Interior Side Rear
Obstruction/Projection
Into Required Setbacks                 Front And Corner Side Interior Side Rear
Accessory buildings, detached garages
and sheds with a setback of at least 5
feet from side and rear property lines No                    Yes           Yes
and subject to section
10-3-3 of this title
Air conditioning and other mechanical
units with a setback of at least 3     No                    Yes           Yes
feet from any property line
Arbors and trellises with a setback of Yes                   Yes           Yes
at least 3 feet from any property line
Bird baths, trees, plants, shrubbery,
gardens, ornamental and security
lighting, outdoor furniture and        Yes                   Yes           Yes
similar customary landscape and yard
improvements
Awnings and canopies projecting no
more than 6 feet and with a setback of Yes                   No            Yes
at least 3 feet from any property line
Balconies projecting no more than 6
feet and with a setback of at least 3  No                    Yes           Yes
feet from any property line
Bay windows and dormers projecting no
more than 4 feet and with a setback of Yes1                  Yes           Yes
at least 3 feet from any property line
Breezeways                             No                    Yes           Yes
Carports, attached to the principal
building, with a setback of at least 3 No                    Yes           Yes
feet from any side or rear property
line
Chimneys projecting no more than 6
feet and with a setback of at least 3  Yes                   Yes           Yes
feet from any property line
Driveways, with a setback of at least
1 foot from property lines to which
they run approximately parallel;       Yes                   Yes           Yes
except, that common driveways serving
2 or more lots may abut the property
line
Eaves and gutters projecting less than
3 feet and with a setback of at least  Yes1                  Yes           Yes
3 feet from any property line
Fences and walls, subject to chapter 6 Yes                   Yes           Yes
of this title
Flagpoles                              Yes                   Yes           Yes
Gazebos, with a setback of at least 3  No                    No            Yes
feet from any property line
Laundry drying equipment               No                    No            Yes
Parking spaces, unenclosed             Yes                   Yes           Yes
Patios and terraces                    No                    No            Yes
Porches and decks no more than 3 feet
above grade, open on at least 3 sides, Yes                   No            Yes
and with a setback of at least 3 feet
from any property line
Recreation equipment including
playground equipment, play houses, and No                    No            Yes
sandboxes
Satellite dish antennas, not exceeding No                    Yes           Yes
1 meter in diameter
Satellite dish antennas, over 1 meter
but not exceeding 2.4 meters in        No                    No            Yes
diameter
Sills, belt courses, cornices,
buttresses and other architectural
features projecting no more than 3     Yes1                  Yes           Yes
feet, that have a setback of at least
3 feet from any property line
Swimming pools, with a setback of at   No                    Yes           Yes
least 5 feet from any property line
Steps, stairs, stoops, landings and
fire escapes (uncovered) projecting no Yes                   Yes           Yes
more than 4 feet and with a setback of
at least 3 feet from any property line
Utility poles and wires                Yes                   Yes           Yes
Wheelchair lifts and ramps that meet
federal, state and local accessibility Yes                   Yes           Yes
standards
Note:
1.   In the B1 downtown commercial district, these features are allowed to
project into the public right of way as far as they may project not required
front and corner side setbacks.
 
   K.   Building Height: Building height is to be measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade adjoining the front building line to:
      1.   The average height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs.
      2.   The highest point of the roof surface for a flat roof; and
      3.   The deck line of a mansard roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.png]
 
   L.   Exceptions To Maximum Height Requirements: Certain structures and
features may exceed the maximum permitted height requirements stipulated
elsewhere in this chapter.
      1.   The following are exempt from the height requirements of this
chapter:
         a.   Architectural projections such as spires, belfries, parapet
walls, cupolas, domes, flues and chimneys.
         b.   Structures such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, radio and television reception towers and aerials (in nonresidential
districts only) roof mounted mechanical equipment, cooling towers, fire towers
and smoke stacks.
         c.   Structures related to utility services such as water towers,
electric power and communication transmission lines, traffic signals and light
poles.
      2.   Radio transmission and reception antennas in residential districts
may exceed the maximum permitted height, provided the height does not exceed
three (3) times its distance from the nearest property line.
      3.   Public and civic uses, such as schools, religious institutions,
hospitals, libraries, places of public assembly, governmental offices and
stations, can be constructed to a height of seventy five feet (75'), provided
all required yards are increased not less than one foot (1') for each two feet
(2') the structure exceeds the maximum height requirement for the applicable
zoning district.
   M.   Building Coverage:
      1.   Building coverage is to be measured as the percentage of lot area
that is covered with principal and accessory buildings and above grade
structures, including garages, sheds, gazebos, decks, porches, and swimming
pools (except for temporary inflatable swimming pools). Projecting roof eaves
on buildings are not counted in calculating building coverage. At grade
accessory structures such as driveways, patios, walkways and other paved
surfaces on a lot are not included in the calculation of maximum building
coverage.
      2.   Detached garages may not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the
combined area of required rear and side yards.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016; amd. Ord. O-25-004, 2-3-2025)
CHAPTER 5: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS
Section
10-5-1: Applicability
10-5-2: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-5-3: Accessible Parking (For People With Disabilities)
10-5-4: Shared Parking
10-5-5: Off Street Loading Requirements
10-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   New Development: The requirements of this chapter apply to all new
buildings constructed and all new uses established in all zoning districts.
   B.   Expansion Of Nonresidential Development: The requirements of this
chapter apply to all expansion of existing buildings or uses in all zoning
districts. When additional parking and loading spaces are required for
expansions of a building or use, the additional spaces are required for the
expanded area only; parking requirements are not required to be recalculated
for the entire building or use.
   C.   Expansion Of Residential Development: The requirements of this chapter
apply whenever additional dwelling units are added to an existing building or
use.
   D.   Change Of Use: The requirements of this chapter apply to a change in
use of an existing building or lot when the number of parking or loading spaces
for the new use exceeds the number required for the existing use.
   E.   Public Parking Areas: All public, city owned parking areas must comply
with the requirements of this title.
   F.   North And South Downtown Business Districts Exemption:
      1.   The north business district includes lots abutting Main Street from
the railroad tracks to the north and Warren Street to the south. The south
business district includes lots abutting Main Street from Central Street to the
north and the southern portion of courthouse square to the south.
      2.   A payment to the off street parking fund in an amount determined by
the city council may be made in lieu of providing parking spaces in the north
and south business districts, subject to the approval of the plan commission
and the city council.
      3.   Payment must be made for any new parking spaces required for new or
expanded development, plus the number of existing parking spaces lost to any
building expansion.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-5-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Spaces Required: Off street parking spaces are required as specified in
the table below:
Use Spaces Required
Use                                                                              Spaces Required
Residential uses:                                                                 
   Single-family dwellings (attached and detached), two-family dwellings and  2 per dwelling unit
manufactured homes
   Multi-family dwellings and other household living uses                     1.5 per dwelling unit
   Group living                                                               1 per 3 beds or residents plus 1
                                                                                 per 3 employees
Public and civic uses:                                                            
   College or university                                                      1 per 6 students
   Cultural exhibits and libraries                                            1 per 400 square feet
   Daycare center                                                             1 per employee plus 1 per 10
                                                                                 children capacity
   Daycare home                                                               1 per employee plus 2 spaces for
                                                                                 drop off/pick up
   Hospitals                                                                  1 per 3 beds plus 1 per 3 employees
   Place of public assembly, religious assembly, parks and recreation, social 1 per 5 seats or 1 per 5 persons’
club or lodge                                                                    capacity
School:                                                                           
   Secondary                                                                  1 per 5 students plus 10 stacking
                                                                                 spaces for drop off/pick up
                                                                                 2 per classroom plus 1 per 4 seats
   Elementary                                                                 in auditorium plus 10 stacking
                                                                                 spaces for drop off/pick up
   Other public and civic uses                                                1 per 5 persons’ capacity
Commercial uses:                                                                  
   Banks and financial services                                               1 per 300 square feet
   Car wash                                                                   1 per 2 employees plus 1 vehicle
                                                                                 stacking space per 100 square feet
   Entertainment and spectator sports; sports and recreation, participant     1 per 5 persons’ capacity
   Funeral home                                                               1 per 100 square feet
                                                                                 1 per guestroom plus 1 per 100
   Lodging                                                                    square feet of retail sales or
                                                                                 dining area
   Medical or dental clinic                                                   1 per 300 square feet
   Miniwarehouse                                                              1 per 3 units
   Motor vehicle repair                                                       1 per employee plus 2 per service
                                                                                 stall
   Motor vehicle sales, light/heavy equipment sales/rental                    1 per 600 square feet
   Offices                                                                    1 per 500 square feet
   Retail sales                                                               1 per 300 square feet
   Restaurants and taverns                                                    1 per 200 square feet
   Other commercial uses                                                      1 per 300 square feet
Industrial uses:                                                                  
   Wholesale sales                                                            1 per 600 square feet
   Manufacturing, production and industrial service; research laboratories;   1 per 3 employees or 1 per 900
warehouses; other industrial uses                                                square feet, whichever is greater
Agricultural uses:                                                                
   Farming                                                                    None required
 
   B.   Rules For Computing Requirements:
      1.   Multiple Uses: Lots containing more than one use must provide
parking equal to the total number of spaces required for all uses unless a
shared parking plan is approved according to section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Fractions: When the calculation of required parking spaces results
in a fraction, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or more must be rounded to the
next whole number and any fraction less than one- half (1/2) must be rounded
down to the preceding whole number.
      3.   Area Measurements: All square footage based parking requirements are
based on gross floor area.
      4.   Occupancy Or Capacity Based Standards: All occupancy or capacity
based parking requirements are based on the largest number of individuals
working on a single shift, the maximum enrollment, or the maximum occupancy
based on the building code, whichever is applicable and whichever results in
the greater number of spaces. For uses with benches or similar seating, one
seat consists of twenty two (22) linear inches of bench length.
      5.   Uses Not Listed: In the case of structures or uses not mentioned in
this section, the zoning administrator must determine which standard is most
appropriate. The zoning administrator may require the applicant to submit a
parking study or other evidence to help determine the most appropriate parking
standard for the proposed use.
   C.   Parking Area Location And Access:
      1.   All required off street parking must be located on the same lot as
the principal use, or within six hundred feet (600') walking distance of the
principal use.
      2.   No parking spaces for business or manufacturing uses may be located
in a residential zoning district except parking spaces required for
nonresidential uses allowed in the district.
      3.   No parking space or driveway may be closer than three feet (3') to
any property line.
      4.   In RE, R1A and R1 districts, all parking spaces for nonresidential
uses must be located behind the front building line.
      5.   In R3 districts, at least one of the required parking spaces for
each dwelling unit must be enclosed in a garage that is set back at least five
feet (5') from all property lines.
   D.   Parking Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Dimensions: Off street parking areas must comply with the following
standards:
 
Dimensions (In Feet)  Parking Angle
                      0 degrees (Parallel) 45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees
Minimum space width   9                    8.5        8.5        9
Minimum space length  22                   19         19         19
Minimum one-way aisle 18                   16         16         18
width
Minimum two-way aisle 20                   22         22         22
width
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.png]
 
      2.   Surfacing:
         a.   All off street parking areas must be graded, paved and properly
drained. All parking areas except those for single-family dwellings must have
the aisles and spaces clearly marked.
         b.   When adjacent to a gravel alley, parking spaces for single-family
dwellings must be graded, properly drained, and may be either paved or surfaced
with gravel.
      3.   Parking Space Access: Each off street parking space must open
directly onto an aisle that complies with the aisle width standards in
subsection D1 of this section.
      4.   Landscaping And Lighting: All off street parking areas except those
for single-family and two- family dwellings must comply with the parking lot
landscaping and lighting requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
      5.   Wheel Stops: Any parking space located within five feet (5') of a
property line must have a masonry or steel wheel stop located at least five
feet (5') from the property line. This requirement does not apply to single-
family or two-family dwellings.
      6.   Driveways And Street Access:
         a.   All off street parking areas must be designed with vehicular
access to a street or alley in a manner that will least interfere with traffic
movements.
         b.   All driveways installed, altered, replaced, or extended after the
effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this title must comply with the following requirements:
Use Type Maximum Driveway Opening (Feet) Minimum Driveway Width (Feet)
                                         One-Way Two-Way
                                   Maximum Driveway Minimum Driveway Width
Use Type                           Opening (Feet)   (Feet)
                                                    One-Way Two-Way
Residential districts:
   Single-family and two-family 24               10      10
   Multi-family                 24               12      20
Nonresidential uses in residential
districts and business districts:
   Serving 20 or fewer parking  24               12      20
spaces
   Serving more than 20 parking 36               12      24
spaces
Manufacturing districts            50               12      24
 
         c.   The location, arrangement and width of all driveways for multi-
family residential and all nonresidential uses must be approved by the chief of
the fire department. Driveway widths greater than the minimums may be required
for emergency vehicle access.
      7.   Access To Highways And Major Streets:
         a.   No direct access to the existing or proposed rights of way of
expressways or controlled access arterial streets is permitted, unless
permission is granted by the highway agency that has jurisdiction and the city
council.
         b.   Direct access may not be taken within fifty feet (50') of an
intersection of an arterial street right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.png]
 
    c.   Barriers such as curbing, fencing, ditches, landscaping or other
topographic barriers must be constructed to prevent vehicular access to the
streets or highways specified in this section.
         d.   Temporary access to the rights of way specified in this section
may be granted if recommended by the highway agencies having jurisdiction and
approved by the city council. The temporary access permit must be temporary,
revocable, subject to any conditions imposed by the city council, and may be
issued for a maximum time period of twelve (12) months.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-5-3: ACCESSIBLE PARKING (FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES):
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   The accessible parking standards of this section apply to all new
parking lots and to changes, improvements and maintenance of existing parking
lots, including, but not limited to, sealcoating, resurfacing, remarking,
fencing, curbs, walks and landscaping.
      2.   The requirements of this section apply to all nonresidential uses,
multi-family dwellings containing ten (10) or more units, or any other
building, structure or site that is owned, leased or financed by a governmental
unit.
      3.   In the event that this section and the Illinois accessibility code
conflict, the stricter regulations apply.
   B.   Spaces Required:
      1.   Residential Uses: When accessible parking spaces are required, they
must be provided in the number specified in the table below:
Off Street Parking Spaces Provided Accessible Spaces Required
Off Street Parking Spaces Provided Accessible Spaces Required
1 to 50                            1
51 to 100                          2
101 to 150                         3
151 to 200                         4
201 to 250                         5
251 to 300                         6
More than 300                      2% of total parking spaces provided
 
      2.   Nonresidential Uses: Accessible parking spaces are required for
nonresidential uses as specified in the table below unless otherwise expressly
stated:
Off Street Parking Spaces Provided Accessible Spaces Required
Off Street Parking Spaces Provided Accessible Spaces Required
1 to 25                            1
26 to 50                           2
51 to 75                           3
76 to 100                          4
101 to 150                         5
151 to 200                         6
201 to 300                         7
301 to 400                         8
401 to 500                         9
501 to 1,000                       2% of total
More than 1,000                    20 plus 1 per 100 over 1,000
 
      3.   Medical Facilities:
         a.   Outpatient Facilities: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the
total number of parking spaces provided for outpatient medical facilities must
be designated as accessible spaces.
         b.   Rehabilitation And Physical Therapy Facilities: A minimum of
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of parking spaces provided for medical
facilities specializing in rehabilitation or physical therapy must be
designated as accessible spaces.
   C.   Layout And Design:
      1.   Location: Accessible parking spaces must be located on the shortest
accessible route of travel between the parking area and an accessible building
entrance. When more than one accessible entrance is served, accessible spaces
must be dispersed and located on the shortest accessible route to each
entrance. When parking facilities do not serve a particular building or use,
the spaces should be located on the shortest accessible route between the
parking area and an accessible pedestrian walkway.
      2.   Minimum Space Size: Car and van parking spaces must be at least
eleven feet (11') wide.
      3.   Access Areas: Access areas must be included to provide space
adjacent to vehicles for passenger loading and unloading. Access areas must:
         a.   Be at least five feet (5') wide;
         b.   Be located on the passenger side of the parking space, based on
the vehicle moving forward into the space, when serving diagonal parking
spaces;
         c.   Extend the full length of the parking space; and
         d.   Be marked to indicate that parking in the access area is
prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.png]
 
      4.   Slope: Parking spaces and access aisles may not have a slope greater
than one to forty eight (1:48). Access aisles must be at the same level as the
parking space.
      5.   Vertical Clearance: Accessible parking spaces must have a vertical
clearance of at least eight feet two inches (8'2").
      6.   Signs And Identification: All accessible parking spaces required by
this chapter must be identified by signs complying with U.S. department of
transportation R7-8 standards, including the international symbol of
accessibility and the amount of the fine imposed for illegally parking in an
accessible space. The sign must be vertically mounted on a post or wall no more
than five feet (5') from the space and centered on the width of the space.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-5-4: SHARED PARKING:
The zoning administrator may approve shared parking facilities for developments
or uses with different operating hours or peak business periods, subject to the
following requirements:
   A.   Location: The edge of the shared parking area must be within six
hundred feet (600') walking distance of the primary entrance of each use
served.
   B.   Parking Study: Applicants wishing to use shared parking as a way to
satisfy the parking requirements of this chapter must submit a parking study to
the zoning administrator. The parking study must demonstrate the feasibility of
the shared parking arrangement; and include the size and use of the proposed
development, the anticipated parking demand for each use in the development,
and the peak periods of parking demand for each use.
   C.   Shared Parking Covenant: A shared parking plan must be enforced by an
irrevocable written covenant among all owners of record. A copy of the covenant
must be submitted to the zoning administrator and recorded in county recorder’s
office before any building permits are issued for any use to be served by the
shared parking area. A shared parking covenant may only be revoked if all off
street parking required by this chapter is provided.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-5-5: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No Use Of Public Right Of Way: At no time may goods be loaded or
unloaded from the right of way of a collector or arterial street. No part of
any vehicle may extend into the right of way of a collector or arterial street
while being loaded or unloaded.
   B.   Loading Area Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Location:
         a.   Plans for location, design and layout of all loading spaces must
be indicated on required site plans.
         b.   No loading spaces may be located in a required setback adjacent
to a residential district.
         c.   Loading spaces must be designed with appropriate access to a
street or alley in a manner that will least interfere with traffic.
      2.   Surfacing: All off street loading areas must be graded, paved, and
properly drained.
      3.   Screening: Loading spaces must be completely screened from view of
residential zoning districts by the existing building, a fence, or an evergreen
planting screen.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 6: LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND LIGHTING
Section
10-6-1: Landscape Plan
10-6-2: Turf
10-6-3: Street Trees
10-6-4: Parking Lot Landscaping
10-6-5: Transition Yards
10-6-6: Refuse Containers
10-6-7: Loading Areas
10-6-8: Outdoor Storage And Work Areas
10-6-9: Mechanical Equipment
10-6-10: Freestanding Signs
10-6-11: Plant Materials
10-6-12: Fences, Walls And Berms
10-6-13: Outdoor Lighting
10-6-14: Intersection Visibility
10-6-1: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   When Required:
      1.   A landscape plan is required for all exterior construction and
development activity that requires site plan review.
      2.   A landscape plan is not required for existing uses that are not
proposing redevelopment or exterior improvements that require site plan review
in accordance with chapter 11 of this title. Landscape plans must comply with
the requirements of this section and must be reviewed and approved by the plan
commission.
   B.   Landscape Plan Contents: A required landscape plan must include the
following information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, property lines, easements, parking lots, driveways, roadways,
sidewalks/bike paths, fences/walls, ground signs, refuse disposal areas, light
poles, freestanding mechanical equipment, drainage and stormwater management
facilities.
      2.   The location, quantity, size and name (both botanical and common
names) of all existing plant materials on the site, and any plant material in
the public right of way, indicating which plant material will be retained or
removed.
      3.   The location, quantity, size and name (both botanical and common
names) of all proposed plant material including, but not limited to, shade
trees, ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubs, ground covers and turf area.
      4.   The existing and proposed grading of the site indicating contours at
one foot (1') intervals, including any proposed berming.
      5.   Elevations of all proposed walls, fences and retaining walls,
including elevations for proposed screening for refuse disposal areas.
      6.   Details for proposed lighting, including specifications as to the
height, type of lamp and shielding.
      7.   The location of all off street loading areas, including an
indication of whether loading docks will be enclosed and methods of proposed
screening.
      8.   Locations of hose connections and other water system sources or
devices, if any.
      9.   The location and placement of all proposed water lines and sprinkler
heads of proposed irrigation systems.
      10.   The location of existing and proposed utility easements and the
type of utilities anticipated for placement within proposed easements and
existing utility lines, both aboveground and belowground.
      11.   Delineation of the required intersection visibility triangle, where
applicable.
      12.   Other elevations and details as determined necessary by the zoning
administrator.
   C.   Changes To Approved Landscape Plans: Any change to an approved
landscape plan requires the approval of the plan commission, unless the zoning
administrator determines that the proposed change is minor in nature. Examples
of minor changes to approved landscape plans are minor rearranging of plant
materials on a site and substitution of plant materials that are of a similar
species and/or equivalent size as the approved materials.
   D.   Design Standards: Landscape plans must be prepared, evaluated, and
approved, based on the following design criteria:
      1.   The scale and nature of landscaping materials must be appropriate to
the size of the structures on the site. For example, larger scale plants should
generally be used to complement larger buildings. Plant material should be
selected for its form, texture, color, pattern of growth and suitability to
local conditions.
      2.   Existing plant materials should be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site. Effort should be made to preserve and protect existing
trees with trunk diameters of more than twelve inches (12"). These trees and
their root systems must be protected from construction equipment and activity
by the installation of fencing materials at the drip line of the trees.
      3.   Plant materials should be placed intermittently against long
expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers to create a softening
effect.
      4.   Detention/retention basins and ponds should be landscaped with shade
and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubs, turf, ground cover and/or other plant
materials. Nonstructural methods of detention planted with native plant
materials are preferred.
      5.   Plant materials should be used to reduce energy consumption needs by
placing deciduous trees on the south and west sides of buildings for shade and
placing evergreens on the north and west sides of buildings to dissipate the
effect of winds.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-2: TURF:
All required setbacks in all zoning districts within the city must be
landscaped primarily with turf or other ground cover plantings. The pavement of
yards other than for parking or loading purposes is prohibited. Turf may be
established through installation of sod or seeding.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-3: STREET TREES:
   A.   Street Tree Requirements:
      1.   Street trees requirements for proposed residential subdivisions are
specified in section
10-9-11 of this title.
      2.   Property lines along public street frontages on multi-family
residential and nonresidential sites must be planted with street trees at a
rate of one (1) tree for every forty (40) linear feet. These trees must be
located between the building line and front and corner side property lines.
Driveway widths may be excluded from the calculation of the required number of
street trees. Flexibility in locating trees is provided where it is not
possible to locate street trees forty feet (40') apart due to the location of
driveways.
      3.   The trees must be located within ten feet (10') of the front and
corner lot lines, but are not permitted to be planted within the public right
of way.
      4.   A list of allowable street tree species is on file with the city. To
reduce the risk of disease and/or insect infestation, no more than fifty
percent (50%) of the street trees in any individual development may be of one
species.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.png]
 
   B.   Other Landscape Materials In The Public Right Of Way: No plant material
or barrier, except as specified in this chapter, may be located in a dedicated
public right of way without the approval of the city street superintendent. The
remainder of the ground surface within the public right of way between the
street and sidewalk must be planted with turf, with the exception that
driveways, sidewalks and bike paths are permitted in all public rights of way.
Materials prohibited within the public right of way, unless approved by the
street superintendent, include other ground covers, shrubs, brick pavers,
gravel, stone, asphalt and concrete, except those used for driveways, sidewalks
and bike paths.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-4: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability:
         a.   Interior parking lot landscaping must be installed in all new
parking lots that contain ten (10) or more parking spaces. The interior
landscaping must be in addition to the required perimeter parking lot
landscaping.
         b.   When existing parking lots are expanded, interior parking lot
landscaping is not required except in the B2 district when the expanded area
contains more than fifty (50) parking spaces or more than seventeen thousand
five hundred (17,500) square feet of parking area. In such cases, the plan
commission is authorized to require interior parking lot landscaping for the
entire expanded area and/or retrofitting of the existing parking lot to comply
with the interior parking lot landscaping requirements to the maximum extent
feasible.
      2.   Number Of Landscape Islands: Landscape islands with at least one
shade tree must occur at a minimum of one island for every ten (10) parking
spaces in a row. Islands are required at each end of a row of parking spaces.
Flexibility in placement of landscape islands may be allowed for creative
parking lot design and preservation of existing trees and vegetation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.png]
 
      3.   Landscape Island Size: Interior parking lot islands must be a
minimum of one hundred eighty (180) square feet in area and a minimum of eight
feet (8') in width, as measured from back of curb to back of curb within the
island.
      4.   Landscape Island Design: Interior parking lot landscaping must
consist of planting islands at least eight inches (8") above the surface of the
parking lot that are protected with concrete curbing.
      5.   Landscape Material: The primary plant materials used in parking lot
islands must be shade tree species. Ornamental trees, shrubs and other plant
materials may be used to supplement the shade tree plantings, but cannot be the
sole source of parking lot landscaping. Mulch may be used around the base of
shade trees and other plant material, provided it is applied at a thickness of
at least two inches (2").
      6.   Visibility: To ensure proper visibility within the parking lot,
shrubs must be no greater than thirty inches (30") in height and the branches
of trees must have a minimum clearance of six feet (6') above the pavement
except in areas that do not affect driver visibility.
   B.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping: Perimeter parking lot landscaping
provides for the enhancement and screening of parking lots by providing a
uniform scheme of landscaping and/or screening along all public streets and
adjacent to residential uses.
      1.   Applicability:
         a.   All new parking lots must install perimeter parking lot
landscaping according to provisions of this subsection.
         b.   When existing parking lots are expanded, perimeter parking lot
landscaping must be provided adjacent to the expanded area only.
      2.   Parking Lots Abutting Public Streets: Where a parking lot abuts a
public right of way (whether a street or an alley), a minimum six foot (6')
wide continuous landscape strip must be provided along one hundred percent
(100%) of the right of way, exclusive of driveways. Screening installed within
this landscape strip must have a minimum height of three feet (3'). The
screening may consist of shrubs, ornamental trees, berming, low pedestrian
walls and/or fencing which, through their arrangement, create the desired
screen. In addition to the three foot (3') screen, one shade tree must be
provided for every forty (40) linear feet along that portion of parking lots
that abut public streets (alleys are excluded). These trees may be clustered or
spaced linearly.
      3.   Parking Lots Abutting Residential Property: Where a parking lot
abuts a property zoned or used for residential purposes, a solid wood fence,
wall, dense hedge or comparable screen must be provided across one hundred
percent (100%) of the property line. Fences and walls must be six feet (6') in
height, and hedges and other screens must be a minimum height of six feet (6').
In addition, one shade or evergreen tree must be provided for every forty (40)
linear feet along that portion of the parking lot that abuts residential
property. Additional shrubs, trees and/or berming may be installed to
supplement the required screening.
   C.   Alternative Compliance:
      1.   Alternative methods of compliance with the standards of this section
may be authorized by the plan commission when one of the following conditions
exist:
         a.   Topography, soil, vegetation, space constraints or other site
conditions are such that full compliance is impossible or impractical, or
improved environmental quality would result from the alternative compliance.
         b.   Safety considerations make alternative compliance necessary.
      2.   In order to be approved, an alternative compliance landscape plan
must equal or exceed strict compliance in terms of visual effect. Alternative
compliance is limited to the specific site under consideration and does not
establish precedent for landscaping on other sites.
      3.   A request for alternative compliance must be submitted along with
the landscape plan as part of the site plan review process. The request must
include sufficient justification, through written and/or graphic means, to
allow evaluation and decision by the plan commission.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-5: TRANSITION YARDS:
   A.   A transition yard is landscaped open space, free of any building or
paved area. Transition yards are intended to lessen the impact of incompatible
land uses on adjacent properties.
   B.   All transition yards must be planted with one shade tree per thirty
(30) linear feet and must have a continuous screen consisting of a berm, hedge,
fence or wall with a height as required by this subsection. The following lists
the transition yard width and screening height required:
Developing Lot’s ZoninAdjacent Lot’s Zoning
                        R Districts B1, B3 B2 B4, M1, M2
Developing Lot’s Adjacent Lot’s Zoning
Zoning             R Districts     B1, B3           B2               B4, M1, M2
A, RE, R1, R1A and
R2 (residential    None            None             None             None
uses)
A, RE, R1, R1A and Width: 10 feet;
R2 (nonresidential screen height:  None             None             None
uses)              4 feet
                   Width: 10 feet;
R3                 screen height:  None             None             None
                   4 feet
                   Width: 6 feet;
B1, B3             screen height:  None             None             None
                   5 feet
                   Width: 15 feet;
B2                 screen height:  None             None             None
                   6 feet
                   Width: 20 feet; Width: 10 feet;  Width: 10 feet;
B4, M1 and M2      screen height:  screen height: 4 screen height: 4 None
                   6 feet          feet             feet
 
   C.   Existing vegetation may be used to meet all or some of the transition
yard requirements. The landscape design may include areas where trees and
shrubs are clustered or spaced linearly as long as the desired screen is
achieved. Evergreen trees may be substituted for shade trees and three (3)
ornamental trees may be substituted for one shade tree. All other areas within
transition yards must be maintained with turf or other ground cover.
   D.   When both a transition yard and perimeter parking lot landscaping would
be required between a parking lot and a residential use, the stricter standard
applies. Sites are not required to provide both types of landscaping and
screening.
   E.   It is recognized that providing full transition yards may not be
possible on small or irregularly shaped sites. When there is not adequate space
to meet transitional yard requirements without creating additional
nonconformities on the site with respect to setbacks, parking, etc., the plan
commission is authorized to approve alternative screening and/or a reduced
transitional yard area.
   F.   Alternative compliance with transition yard requirements is permitted
according to the standards of subsection
10-6-4C of this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-6: REFUSE CONTAINERS:
   A.   This section applies to all uses except single-family and two-family
dwellings. Single-family and two-family dwellings may utilize refuse containers
with a maximum forty five (45) gallon capacity, not to exceed fifty (50) pounds
in weight when filled.
   B.   When refuse containers and grease storage containers are not enclosed
within a principal or accessory building, they may only be placed in a rear or
interior side yard, and must be screened within an enclosure, subject to the
following requirements:
      1.   The enclosure must be constructed of an opaque wood fence or masonry
wall on three (3) sides with a minimum height equal to or greater than the
height of the refuse container. One side of the storage area must be furnished
with an opaque, lockable gate. No refuse material may be visible above the
enclosure.
      2.   The enclosure area must be kept free of debris. Refuse containers
must be emptied regularly and kept closed when not in use so that containers do
not attract vermin.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-7: LOADING AREAS:
Loading areas in all zoning districts must be screened from the public right of
way and abutting properties that are zoned or used for residential purposes.
Appropriate methods of screening include walls, fences, berms, and landscape
plantings that are a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-8: OUTDOOR STORAGE AND WORK AREAS:
Outdoor storage and work areas must be screened from the public right of way
and abutting properties that are zoned or used for residential purposes.
Appropriate methods of screening include walls, fences, berms and landscape
plantings. Walls and fences must be six feet (6') in height; landscape screens
must be a minimum of six feet (6') in height. No stored materials may be
visible above the fence or landscape screen.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-9: MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT:
Mechanical equipment such as transformers and heating and air conditioning
(HVAC) units must be located and/or screened so that they are not visible from
any property line.
   A.   Ground Mounted Equipment: Ground mounted equipment in all
nonresidential development must be screened with a dense hedge that is of
sufficient height to screen the mechanical unit on all sides visible from any
property line.
   B.   Roof Mounted Equipment: Roof mounted mechanical equipment in all
nonresidential and multi- family residential development must be screened on
all sides visible from any property line. Screening may include parapet walls
or other opaque roof elements similar and compatible in color and texture to
the exterior building materials on which the unit is located.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-10: FREESTANDING SIGNS:
Landscape material must be installed around the base of freestanding signs
consisting of shrubs, perennial/annual flowers, and/or ground cover. The
required landscaping area must be a minimum of three feet (3') wide on all
sides of the sign base. Where the area around the base of the sign is
insufficient in size for all of the required landscaping, the zoning
administrator may permit installation of a portion of the required landscaping
at an alternate location on the site.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-11: PLANT MATERIALS:
   A.   Selection: All planting materials must be good quality and of species
capable of withstanding the climate of central Illinois and individual site
microclimates. Size and density of plant material, both at the time of planting
and at maturity, are additional criteria that must be considered when selecting
plant material. The use of drought tolerant and salt tolerant plant material is
preferred. Trees and shrubs may be balled and burlapped or container grown.
   B.   Minimum Planting Sizes: Minimum planting sizes for all required
landscape materials are as follows:
 
Type             Size
Shade trees      2" caliper
Ornamental trees 6' height unless true dwarf species
Evergreen trees  6' height
Deciduous shrubs 2' height
Evergreen shrubs 2' height
 
   C.   Installation:
      1.   Required landscaping and screening must be completely installed
prior to the issuance of a letter of occupancy.
      2.   All landscaping materials must be installed in accordance with the
current planting procedures established by the American association of
nurserymen.
      3.   All plant materials must be free from disease and installed in a
fashion that ensures the availability of sufficient soil and water to sustain
healthy growth.
      4.   Plant materials must be installed in a manner that is not intrusive
to utilities or pavement.
      5.   Plant materials identified on approved landscaping plans must be
installed, whenever feasible, within the growing season following approval of
the applicable building permits for the subject site. Where it is not feasible
to install all required landscaping within that growing season due to weather
constraints, the zoning administrator has the authority to grant a letter of
occupancy for the building, provided that all required landscaping will be
installed the next growing season. If determined necessary by the zoning
administrator, a performance guarantee may be required to be posted by the
property owner to ensure installation of all required landscape materials
within the next growing season.
   D.   Planting Methods: This subsection outlines general guidelines for the
installation of all landscape material.
      1.   Most small, deciduous trees may be moved bare rooted unless
otherwise indicated. Roots of bare rooted trees must be protected against
drying out.
      2.   All coniferous trees must be moved balled and burlapped. Balled
roots should be prevented from drying out at the surface of their ball, and
they should be protected from freezing.
      3.   Pits dug for the planting of bare root plants must be at least
twelve inches (12") larger in diameter than the diameter of the root system in
order to accommodate the roots without crowding. For balled trees, the pits
should be a minimum of twelve inches (12") larger than the diameter of the ball
of soil to allow proper backfill of soil.
      4.   Plants must be planted no deeper than previously grown with due
allowance for settling.
      5.   In planting containers, artificial drainage must be provided for the
root system of any species intolerant of wet sites, or species tolerant to wet
sites must be used.
      6.   Topsoil, compost, peat moss or an acceptable soil mixture may be
placed around the roots of bare root stock or in the backfill around balled
stock. When the planting is completed, the entire root system must be
thoroughly saturated with water and cord and burlap wrapping must be cut and/or
removed.
      7.   Trees and planting beds must be mulched around the base of plant
material with shredded bark, feather rocks or similar organic materials to hold
moisture. Mulch cannot be used as a substitute for turf or required plant
materials.
      8.   Although pruning should be done to develop a balance with the root
system, excessive pruning at the time of transplanting should be avoided.
      9.   Tree trunks must be suitably wrapped and guyed, or supported in an
upright position, according to accepted arboricultural practices. The guys or
supports should be installed so that they will not girdle or cause serious
injury to the tree or endanger public safety.
   E.   Maintenance:
      1.   While irrigation systems are not required for landscape areas, where
installed irrigation systems are installed they must be designed to conserve
the use of water.
      2.   All landscaping materials must be continually maintained in good
condition to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance, and be kept free
of refuse and debris. Fences, walls and berms must be maintained in good
condition and neat appearance. Plant materials, berms, walls and fences must be
protected from damage by motor vehicles through use of concrete curbing or
wheel stops.
      3.   All landscaping should be periodically trimmed so that it does not
obstruct a public right of way. Diseased and dead plant materials must be
replaced in accordance with the approved landscape plan.
      4.   The owner and occupants of a property are jointly responsible for
the maintenance, repair and replacement of all plant materials, fences, walls
and other landscape improvements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-12: FENCES, WALLS AND BERMS:
Fences and walls must be designed in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Location: Fences and walls, including all posts, bases and other
structural parts, must be located completely within the boundaries of the lot
on which it is located. No fence or wall may be located closer than two feet
(2') to a public sidewalk.
   B.   Measurement: The height of fences and walls is measured from the ground
level at the base of the fence to the highest point on the fence or wall.
   C.   Maximum Height And Maximum Opacity:
 
Yard                  R And A Districts B Districts    M Districts
Front and corner side 4'/50% opaque     6'/100% opaque 6'/100% opaque
Side                  6'/100% opaque    6'/100% opaque 8'/100% opaque
Rear                  6'/100% opaque    6'/100% opaque 8'/100% opaque
 
   D.   Design And Construction:
      1.   Permitted Materials In Residential And Agricultural Districts: The
following materials are permitted:
         a.   Wood;
         b.   Wrought iron;
         c.   Vinyl (that is designed to look like wood or wrought iron);
         d.   Brick;
         e.   Stone;
         f.   Chainlink, except in the front and corner side yard; and
         g.   Other similar materials approved by the plan commission.
      2.   Permitted Materials In Business And Manufacturing Districts: The
following fence and wall materials are permitted:
         a.   Wood;
         b.   Wrought iron;
         c.   Vinyl (that is designed to look like wood or wrought iron);
         d.   Brick;
         e.   Stone; and
         f.   Chainlink. When chainlink fencing is used along a front or corner
side lot line in a business or manufacturing district, the side of the fence
nearest the street right of way must be planted with shrubs a minimum of three
feet (3') in height.
      3.   Finished Side: All fences and walls must be constructed with the
finished surface facing the exterior of the property with support posts placed
to the inside, except in such cases where the posts or support columns are an
integral part of its aesthetic design.
      4.   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences: Barbed wire, razor wire,
concertina, and the electrification of fencing are prohibited.
      5.   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools must be enclosed with security fences
in accordance with the building code.
      6.   Maintenance: It is the responsibility of the owner and/or occupant
of the property where a fence or wall is erected to maintain the structure in
good repair and structurally sound condition at all times, with no loose,
rotting or rusting materials, and with all structural components attached in
accordance with common building practices. If a fence is not in compliance with
this subsection D6, the zoning administrator may order the fence to be
repaired, replaced or removed.
   E.   Berm Design:
      1.   Perimeter parking lot and transitional yard landscaping may include
installation of earthen berms for screening purposes.
      2.   Berms should not be designed in an unnatural, symmetrical pattern,
but should be varied in both vertical and horizontal dimensions.
      3.   Berms may not exceed a maximum slope of three to one (3:1).
      4.   All berms must be planted with landscaping to prevent their erosion.
Plantings placed on top of berms must consist of species compatible with the
terrain of the berm.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-13: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
All exterior lighting must comply with the following standards:
   A.   Height:
      1.   All exterior lighting fixtures must be designed, located and mounted
at a maximum height of fifteen feet (15') above grade for noncutoff lights, and
forty feet (40') above grade for cutoff lights.
      2.   Parks, schools, and outdoor recreation facilities may have lights
mounted at up to seventy feet (70'); provided, that the light pole is located
at least twenty feet (20') from a residential property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.png]
 
B.   Glare Reduction:
      1.   Glare must be minimized by orienting lights away from the public
right of way and abutting properties or by planting vegetation to block other
properties from the glare.
      2.   All cutoff light fixtures must remain shielded and directed downward
at all times, and must not be redirected to illuminate a building, sign, or
other site features.
      3.   Gas station canopy lighting must be designed with recessed fixtures
that are shielded and directed downward to prevent glare on adjoining
properties and roadways.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-6-14: INTERSECTION VISIBILITY:
   A.   No sign, fence, wall, shrub or other obstruction more than three feet
(3') in height may be located or allowed to grow within a visibility triangle.
   B.   A visibility triangle includes the area created by the street right of
way lines extending thirty feet (30') from their intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.png]
 
   C.   When an arterial street intersects with another arterial street or a
railway, the visibility triangle is increased to fifty feet (50') from the
intersection of the right of way lines.
   D.   The city is authorized to trim, remove or order removal of materials
that violate this section.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 7: SIGNS
Section
10-7-1: Purpose And Applicability
10-7-2: General Requirements
10-7-3: Signs In The Public Right Of Way And On Public Property
10-7-4: Signs Allowed In Residential Districts
10-7-5: Signs Allowed In Nonresidential Districts
10-7-6: Temporary Signs
10-7-7: Sign Permits
10-7-8: Unsafe, Obsolete Or Nonconforming Signs
10-7-9: Maintenance
10-7-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to achieve balance among the
following differing, and at times, competing goals:
      1.   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication
for businesses, organizations and individuals in Princeton;
      2.   To provide a means of wayfinding in the community, thus reducing
traffic confusion and congestion;
      3.   To provide for adequate business identification, advertising and
communication;
      4.   To prohibit signs of such excessive size and number that they
obscure one another to the detriment of the economic and social well being of
the city.
      5.   To protect the safety and welfare of the public by minimizing
hazards to pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      6.   To preserve property values by preventing unsightly and chaotic
development which has a blighting influence upon the community;
      7.   To differentiate among those signs that, because of their location,
may distract drivers on public streets and those that may provide information
to them while they remain in their cars but out of active traffic;
      8.   To minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public
and private property; and
      9.   To implement the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan,
including the following:
         a.   Adopt more context appropriate signage regulations for
businesses; consider regulating signage by use and by zone;
         b.   Promote convenient access and signage to parking in all
commercial areas; and
         c.   Preserve the “small town” character of Main Street.
   B.   Signs Exempt From Regulation: The following signs are exempt from
regulation under this chapter:
      1.   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, or by order of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      2.   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet (3') beyond the property
line of the development site or parcel on which the sign is located, or any
sign that the zoning administrator determines is not intended to be legible
from any street right of way or beyond the property line; and
      3.   Traffic control signs on private property, such as “Stop”, “Yield”
and similar signs, the faces of which meet standards set forth in the Illinois
“Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and which contain no commercial
message of any sort.
   C.   Signs Allowed In All Zoning Districts Without A Permit:
      1.   Signs Not Subject To Other Regulations: The following signs are
allowed without a sign permit and are not subject to any other regulations
under this chapter:
         a.   Temporary signs required by a valid and applicable federal, state
or local law, regulation or ordinance; or posted by a public agency, acting in
accordance with an adopted law or ordinance. Unless expressly required by a
federal or state law, such signs may not exceed the size of other temporary
signs allowed at the same location. No such sign may be illuminated or
animated. If the sign is freestanding, it may not have a greater height than
other temporary signs allowed at the same location. Such signs must be removed
when they no longer serve the purpose for which they were posted; and
         b.   Signs no larger than four (4) square feet not requiring a
building permit or electrical permit and not legible from a distance of more
than three feet (3') beyond the property line of the development site or parcel
on which the sign is located; and
      2.   Signs Subject To Other Regulations: The following signs will be
allowed without a sign permit but are subject to more detailed regulations set
forth elsewhere in this chapter:
         a.   Temporary signs conforming with the regulations for temporary
signs in the district in which they are located;
         b.   Flags and flagpoles conforming with subsections
10-7-4C6 and
10-7-5B10 of this chapter; and
         c.   On site signs for traffic and parking control; provided, that
such signs conform to the “Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and
contain no commercial messages.
   D.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   Generally: The following signs are expressly prohibited in all
zoning districts:
         a.   Animated signs;
         b.   Wind blown signs (except temporary banners);
         c.   Strings of lights (except for temporary holiday decorations);
         d.   Portable signs (except sandwich board signs);
         e.   For purposes of this section, a vehicle containing a commercial
message and regularly parked on the street side of any business will be
considered a portable sign and thus prohibited unless the vehicle is regularly
and customarily used in the business;
         f.   Signs on benches;
         g.   Signs on trees;
         h.   Signs on utility poles, other than signs installed by the utility
and related to the utility facility;
         i.   Signs blocking required means of egress from any building;
         j.   Roof signs; and
         k.   Signs within the public right of way or on public property,
except signs posted in accordance with section
10-7-3 of this chapter or projecting signs in accordance with subsection
10-7-5B2 of this chapter.
      2.   List Not Exclusive: The list of prohibited sign types set out in
this section is illustrative only. Any sign that is not exempt from this
chapter under subsection B of this section, not established as a lawful
nonconforming sign in accordance with section
10-12-7 of this title, or not expressly allowed under another section of this
title, is a prohibited sign.
   E.   Applicability: No display sign or outdoor advertising device may be
placed, erected, altered, rebuilt, enlarged, extended or relocated except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The repainting, changing of
parts and preventative maintenance of signs are not considered alterations.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sign Measurement And Interpretation:
      1.   Measurement Of Copy Area Of Individual Signs: The copy area of a
sign face will be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle,
triangle or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the
writing, representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or
color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed. The copy area of a sign face does not include any supporting framework,
bracing or decorative fence or wall when the fence or wall otherwise meets the
regulations of this title and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.png]
 
      2.   Measurement Of Area Of Multi-Faced Signs: Where the sign faces of a
double faced sign are parallel and the distance between the faces is three feet
(3') or less, only one display face will be measured in computing sign area. If
the two (2) faces of a double faced sign are of unequal area, the area of the
sign will be the area of the larger sign. In all other cases, the areas of all
faces of a multi-faced sign will be added together to compute the area of the
sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.png]
 
      3.   Sign Height Measurement: The height of a sign will be computed as
the distance from the highest point of the sign structure to the elevation of
the centerline of the adjacent public street or highway.
      4.   Determination Of Visibility Or Legibility:
         a.   Where this chapter requires a determination of “visibility” or
“legibility”, the standard will be based on the eyesight of an adult eligible
to receive an Illinois driver’s license (wearing any corrective lenses required
by the license). Where the height of the person is material to the
determination, the person will be presumed to be more than five feet (5') and
less than six feet (6') tall.
         b.   In determining visibility of a sign from a residential property,
it will be assumed that a two (2) story residence will occupy the property with
second story windows facing toward the sign.
   B.   Wind Pressure: Any sign, other advertising structure, marquee, canopy
or awning as defined in this title must be designed and constructed to
withstand a wind pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot
of net surface area; and must be constructed to receive dead loads as required
in the building code and/or other ordinances of the city.
   C.   Substitution Of Messages: The sign regulations of this chapter are not
intended to favor commercial speech over constitutionally protected political
or noncommercial speech. A sign containing a noncommercial message may be
substituted for any sign containing a commercial message that is allowed by the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-3: SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Signs Permitted: Only the following signs are permitted in the public
right of way and on public property:
      1.   Signs installed by any of the following and directly related to the
use of the right of way or of public property, including the control and
direction of traffic:
         a.   The city of Princeton;
         b.   Bureau County;
         c.   State of Illinois;
         d.   Any transit company authorized to provide service to or through
Princeton;
         e.   Any public utility with a franchise or other agreement with the
city; or
         f.   Any other government entity or person expressly authorized by
Illinois law to install a sign in the right of way.
      2.   No such sign permitted by this subsection may bear a commercial
message other than one related to a utility or transit service, and no such
sign may be animated or lighted, unless the commercial message, animation or
lighting is expressly required by a valid and applicable state or federal law.
      3.   “Adopt A Highway” signs acknowledging voluntary efforts to provide
landscaping, litter control or other maintenance, when the signs are installed
pursuant to a written policy of the city of Princeton or the state of Illinois.
   B.   Other Signs: Any other sign installed or placed in the public right of
way will be deemed an unlawful sign and an abandoned sign and will be subject
to immediate removal and disposal by the city, without compensation to the
owner. The owner or other person placing the sign will, nevertheless, be
subject to the penalty provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-4: SIGNS ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Single-Family And Two-Family Districts: In the RE, R1A, R1 and R2
districts, the following classes of signs are permitted in accordance with
regulations of this subsection:
      1.   Dimensions And Number Of Signs: The numbers and dimensions of signs
in these districts will be controlled by the following table:
Sign Type Maximum Number Maximum Area Maximum Height Location Additional
                                                              Requirements
Sign Type                    Maximum    Maximum   Maximum Location Additional
                             Number     Area      Height           Requirements
Permanent signs:
   Address signs:
                             1 per                        Inside   An address
      Freestanding     street     6 square  4 feet  property sign is
                             frontage   feet              line     required on
                                                                   all premises
                             1 per      2 square
      Wall             dwelling   feet      n/a     On wall   
                             unit
   Residential identification:
                                                          Inside   See
      Freestanding     1          24 square 4 feet  property subsection
                                        feet              line     C1 of this
                                                                   section
                                                                   See
      Wall             1          1 square  n/a     On wall  subsection
                                        foot                       C1 of this
                                                                   section
                                                          Inside   See
   Incidental signs       n/a        2 square  4 feet  property subsection
                                        feet              line     C2 of this
                                                                   section
Temporary signs:
                             3 total;                     8 feet   See
   All temporary signs    see        6 square  4 feet  from     subsection
                             conditions feet              property C3 of this
                                                          line     section
Other signs:
   Institutional signs    See subsection C5 of this section
   Other non- residential Must comply with the requirements for
signs                        institutional signs in subsection C5 of this
                             section
 
   B.   Multi-Family District: In the R3 district, the following classes of
signs are permitted in accordance with regulations of this subsection:
      1.   Dimensions And Numbers Of Signs: The numbers and dimensions of signs
in these districts will be controlled by the following table:
Sign Type Maximum Number Maximum Area Maximum Height Location Additional
                                                              Requirements
Sign Type                          Maximum    Maximum Area Maximum  Location Additional
                                   Number                  Height            Requirements
Permanent signs:
   Address signs:
                                   1 per                            Inside   An address
      Freestanding           street     6 square     4 feet   property sign is
                                   frontage   feet                  line     required on
                                                                             all premises
                                   1 per      6 square
      Wall                   dwelling   feet         n/a      On wall
                                   unit
   Residential identification:
                                                                    Inside   See
      Freestanding           1 per      24 square    4 feet   property subsection
                                   driveway   feet                  line     C1 of this
                                                                             section
                                   1 per                                     See
      Wall                   public     8 square     n/a      On wall  subsection
                                   entrance   feet                           C1 of this
                                                                             section
                                                                    Inside   See
   Incidental signs             n/a        2 square     4 feet   property subsection
                                              feet                  line     C2 of this
                                                                             section
                                              See          Inside
   Traffic control              n/a        additional   property
                                              requirements line
   Temporary signs:
                                   3 total;                         8 feet   See
      All temporary signs    see        6 square     4 feet   inside   subsection
                                   conditions feet                  property C3 of this
                                                                    line     section
   Other signs:
      Institutional signs    See subsection C5 of this section
      Other non- residential Must comply with the requirements for institutional
                                   signs in subsection C5 of this section
 
   C.   Supplemental Rules:
      1.   Permanent Signs: Permanent signs in residential districts must bear
no commercial message other than one directly related to a business or
occupation conducted on the premises lawfully and in full compliance with this
title, not including home occupations.
      2.   Incidental Signs: Incidental signs are generally intended to provide
warnings or information, such as “no parking”, “no trespassing”, “dangerous
dog” and similar information. Incidental signs may not bear any commercial
message.
      3.   Temporary Signs:
         a.   Residents or owners of units in the RE, R1A, R1 and R2 districts
are entitled to a total of three (3) temporary signs per dwelling unit at any
one time, only one of which may bear a commercial message.
         b.   Residents or owners of property in R3 district are entitled to a
total of three (3) temporary signs per dwelling unit or three (3) temporary
signs per driveway, whichever is less.
         c.   The only commercial messages allowed on temporary signs in these
districts are the following:
            (1)   A message directly related to a permitted nonresidential use
on the premises, conducted lawfully and in full compliance with this title, not
including home occupations;
Example:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.png]
 
            (2)   A message pertaining to the sale or lease of the premises; or
Example:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1723.png]
 
            (3)   A message related to an occasional sale (such as a garage or
yard sale), held lawfully and in compliance with applicable ordinances of the
city.
Example:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.png]
 
         d.   Temporary signs may be used to express the opinion of the owner
or occupant on any matter deemed by the person to be of public interest but may
not bear commercial messages.
Example:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.png]
 
         e.   A temporary real estate sign must be removed within ten (10) days
after the transfer of title or change of occupancy of the property. A temporary
free speech sign that relates to an election or other event must be removed
within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the election or other event. A
temporary sign pertaining to an occasional sale must be removed within one
business day following the end of the sale.
      4.   Illumination:
         a.   Single-Family Districts: A temporary or permanent sign in an RE,
R1A, R1 or R2 district must not be separately illuminated. This subsection C4a
is not intended to prohibit the installation of such a sign near a porch light
or yard light, which may incidentally illuminate the sign.
         b.   Multi-Family Districts: A permanent sign in the R3 district may
be separately illuminated by direct, white light that does not flash or move,
and which will not result in glare or spillover exceeding 0.50 foot-candle at
the nearest property line. The electric supply for illuminated signs must be
located underground. Temporary signs in these districts may not be separately
illuminated.
      5.   Institutional Signs: Any educational institution, religious
institution or other institutional use permitted in the residential zoning
districts will be permitted the following signs in place of the permanent signs
otherwise allowed in these districts:
         a.   One freestanding sign not more than thirty two (32) square feet
in area and not more than six feet (6') in height; up to fifty percent (50%) of
the area may be manual changeable copy area; electronic message display panels
may be permitted by variance.
         b.   One wall sign for each public entrance to the institution; each
sign may be no more than eight (8) square feet in area;
         c.   Any institutional sign may be separately illuminated by direct,
white light that does not flash or move, and which will result in glare or
spillover not exceeding 0.50 foot-candle at the nearest property line.
      6.   Flags: For the purpose of this subsection, the term “flagpole”
includes both freestanding and wall mounted poles and supports. The display of
flags in residential districts will be subject to the following limitations:
         a.   A flag may not bear commercial messages;
         b.   There may be no more than two (2) flags per pole;
         c.   No flag may be larger than five feet (5') by eight feet (8');
         d.   A flagpole must have a setback of at least five feet (5') from
any property line;
         e.   No rooftop flagpoles are permitted in any district;
         f.   Each flagpole must be designed and constructed to support the
number and size of flags used;
         g.   There may be no more than one flagpole on a building lot; and
         h.   No flagpole may have a height of greater than twenty feet (20'),
measured by the same methods used to measure the height of signs.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-5: SIGNS ALLOWED IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
In all business districts, the following signs are permitted, subject to the
requirements set forth in this chapter:
 
Sign Type            Maximum   Maximum   Maximum    Location      Illumination Additional
                     Area      Height    Dimensions                            Requirements
Residential signs    All signs permitted in the residential districts
                                                                               See
                               30'; 4'                                         subsection A
                               above                              See          of this
                     200 sq.   roof/     10' tall x Inside        subsection   section;
Advertising signs    ft.       parapet,  20' wide   property line A5 of this   permitted
                               whichever                          section      only in the
                               is higher                                       B2 district
                                                                               with special
                                                                               use
Business signs:
                     20% total                                    See          See
                     wall                           On building   subsection   subsection B
   Wall signs     area,     n/a       n/a        wall          B8 of this   of this
                     including                                    section      section
                     windows
                                                                               See
                     80 sq.                                       See          subsection B
   Freestanding   ft.; 24   25'; 6'              Inside        subsection   of this
signs                sq. ft.   in the B3 n/a        property line B8 of this   section; not
                     in the B3 district                           section      permitted in
                     district                                                  the B1
                                                                               district
                                                    Inside
   Sandwich board                                property                   Limit one
signs                6 sq. ft. 3'        n/a        line, not     Prohibited   per property
                                                    within
                                                    pedestrianway
 
   A.   Additional Regulations For Advertising Signs:
      1.   Special Use:
         a.   Permitting of new advertising signs shall require approval
through the special use process section
10-11-5 of this title.
      2.   Location: An advertising sign is subject to the following locational
standards:
         a.   It must be located entirely within the property line of the
zoning lot on which it is located;
         b.   It must not be between any front building line and the street;
         c.   It must not be located within two hundred feet (200') of another
advertising sign; and
         d.   It must not be located within two hundred feet (200') of a
residential zoning district if the sign will be visible from the residential
district.
      3.   Signs Near Parks: No advertising sign may be erected within five
hundred feet (500') of any public park of more than five (5) acres in area if
the sign will be legible from any part of the park.
      4.   Signs Near Freeways Or Expressways: No advertising sign, the
informative contents of which are to be visible from a park or expressway, may
be erected within five hundred feet (500') of any public park of more than five
(5) acres in area, or any freeways, expressways and toll roads designated as
such in the records of the governing authorities.
      5.   Illumination: Advertising signs may be separately illuminated by
direct, white light that does not flash or move, and which will not result in
glare or spillover at the nearest property line. The electric supply for
illuminated signs must be located underground.
   B.   Additional Regulations For Business Signs:
      1.   Freestanding Signs:
         a.   No more than one freestanding sign is allowed per street
frontage.
         b.   Signs, clocks or other devices erected on standards, poles, or
separate supports must be placed so as to be entirely within the property lines
of the premises upon which they are located.
         c.   Up to twenty five percent (25%), or twenty four (24) square feet,
of the permitted sign face area of any freestanding sign in the B2, B3 and B4
districts may be used for manual changeable copy, subject to the illumination
limitations set out in subsection B9 of this section.
         d.   Signs located in the B2 district within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') of an exit ramp of an interstate highway (measured from the point
of intersection of the rights of way of the interstate highway and the
intersecting highway) may be increased to a height of seventy feet (70') and be
allowed an increased maximum total area of three hundred (300) square feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1729.png]
 
      2.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs are allowed only in the B1
district subject to the following standards:
         a.   Projecting signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet;
         b.   Projecting signs may project no more than four and one-half feet
(4-1/2') from the building wall and no more than eighteen inches (18") above
the roof or parapet;
         c.   Projecting signs must be no closer than two feet (2')
horizontally from the curb or edge of the sidewalk, and no closer than nine
feet (9') vertically to the walkway below; and
         d.   All projecting signs must be installed or erected in such a
manner that minimizes visibility of support structures such as angle irons or
braces.
      3.   Marquee Signs:
         a.   Any sign located on a marquee or canopy must be affixed flat to
the surface of the marquee or canopy;
         b.   Marquee signs may not extend vertically or horizontally beyond
the limits of the marquee or canopy; except, that individual, freestanding
letters may project to a height not exceeding twelve inches (12") above same;
         c.   They must be supported only by attachment to a building and may
not extend more than six feet (6') beyond the building. No posts may be used
for support;
         d.   Vertical clearance above the sidewalk must be at least nine feet
(9'); and
         e.   Marquees or canopies thicker than eighteen inches (18") must be
beveled horizontally at a forty five degree (45°) angle to permit an
unobstructed view of adjacent property.
      4.   Awning Signs: Awning signs are subject to the following
restrictions:
         a.   No awning sign may cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the
surface of the awning;
         b.   Lettering height on awning signs may not be greater than sixteen
inches (16");
         c.   Letters that are eight inches (8") or less in height will not be
considered part of the total sign area permitted for the property but will be
subject to the other provisions of this subsection B4;
         d.   Any sign located on an awning must affixed flat to the surface of
the awning;
         e.   The awning may not be internally illuminated or backlit;
         f.   The awning must be supported only by attachment to a building and
may not extend more than six feet (6') beyond the building. No posts may be
used for support; and
         g.   Vertical clearance above the sidewalk must be at least nine feet
(9'); except, that retractable awnings may have a clearance of not less than
eight feet (8').
      5.   Sandwich Board Signs:
         a.   Sandwich board signs may only be displayed in the B1 and B2
districts during business hours, may not block required means of egress from
any building, and may not be located in any pedestrianway.
         b.   Sandwich board signs may not be illuminated.
         c.   Only one sandwich board sign is permitted per lot.
      6.   Shopping Center Signs:
         a.   For an integrated planned business development in single
ownership and management, or under unified control, one additional sign may be
erected, not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in area.
         b.   This sign may advertise only the name, location and special
events of the integrated shopping center and the names of the tenants therein.
         c.   The sign must be placed so as to be entirely within the property
lines of the premises upon which it is located.
         d.   When the sign is mounted on a pole, the bottom edge of the sign
must be at least nine feet (9') above the grade of the adjacent street. The
overall height of the sign may not exceed twenty five feet (25') above grade of
the adjacent street or above the adjoining ground level if the ground level is
above the street level.
      7.   Wall Signs: Wall signs are permitted in all business districts,
subject to the following standards:
         a.   Wall signs are not permitted on the side of any building facing
and located within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zoning district;
         b.   Projecting, marquee and window signs will be considered wall
signs for purposes of computing the permitted sign area.
         c.   A wall sign, other than a projecting sign (where permitted) may
not extend more than sixteen inches (16") from the surface of the wall; and
         d.   A wall sign may not project more than twelve inches (12") above
the top of a structural wall of the building. Wall signs may not be installed
on fences or on architectural projections serving no purpose other than as
signboards.
         e.   No sign may be placed on any wall, fence or standard facing the
side of any adjoining lot located in a residential district.
         f.   Wall signs in the B-1 district shall be limited to the lesser of:
one hundred fifty (150) square feet or twenty percent (20%) of the wall
surface. Exception: painted murals incorporating a business name.
      8.   Electronic Message Display Panel And Changeable Copy Signs:
Electronic message display panels and manual changeable copy signs are
permitted in B2 and B4 districts, subject to the following standards:
         a.   Sign Area: Total area of electronic message panel or changeable
copy shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the permitted sign face area, or
twenty four (24) square feet.
         b.   Electronic message display panels and changeable copy shall only
be integrated into freestanding signs.
         c.   Only one sign per zoning lot may contain an electronic message
display or changeable copy panel.
         d.   Electronic message display panels shall be located at least one
hundred feet (100') from a residential zoning district.
         e.   Sign content/messages shall not consist of video, and shall not
blink or flash.
         f.   Length Of Display: Messages shall be displayed in no less than
three (3) second intervals.
         g.   Automatic Dimming: Message signs shall be equipped with light
sensing devices which automatically dim the intensity of the light emitted by
the sign during ambient low light and nighttime (dusk to dawn conditions). No
sign shall exceed an illumination level of 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light
as measured using a foot-candle meter at a distance of one hundred feet (100')
from the sign.
         h.   Maintenance: Electronic message signs shall be properly
maintained and turned off within twenty four (24) hours of malfunction and
until working properly.
      9.   Illumination:
         a.   Limits When Adjoining Residential Property: Illumination on
business signs must be shielded so that the glare or spillover is no more than
one foot-candle at the property line adjoining any residential zoning district.
         b.   Illumination In The B3 District: Signs in the B3 district may not
be internally illuminated.
         c.   Flashing Lights: Flashing lights, rapidly changing or
intermittent type illumination, rotating beams, beacons or illumination
resembling an emergency light are prohibited.
         d.   Electric Supply: The electric supply for all illuminated signs
must be located underground.
      10.   Flags: For the purpose of this section, the term “flagpole”
includes both freestanding and wall mounted poles and supports. The display of
flags in nonresidential districts will be subject to the following limitations:
         a.   There may be no more than three (3) flags per pole;
         b.   No more than one flag may bear a commercial message;
         c.   No flag bearing a commercial message may be larger than five feet
by eight feet (5'x8'), except flags mounted on buildings shall not exceed two
feet by four feet (2'x4');
         d.   A flagpole must have a setback of at least five feet (5') from
any property line;
         e.   No rooftop flagpoles are permitted in any district;
         f.   There may be no more than three (3) flagpoles per principal
building on any development site;
         g.   Each flagpole must be designed and constructed to support the
number and size of flags used;
         h.   No flagpole may have a height of greater than thirty feet (30'),
measured by the same methods used to measure the height of signs; and
         i.   Each flagpole must be within thirty feet (30') of the principal
entrance to the building to which it is oriented.
      11.   Window Signs: Total copy area of a sign shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the total window/door area on a single wall, and exterior
window signs are prohibited.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-6: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary cloth signs and temporary banners will be permitted for up to a total
of thirty (30) days in any calendar year, which may be divided into as many as
three (3) separate periods, upon the issuance of a temporary sign permit. The
following additional limitations apply:
   A.   The total area of temporary promotional signs on one zoning lot at one
time may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet; and
   B.   Detached temporary signs will be subject to the height and location
limits applicable to a freestanding or ground sign on the property.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-7: SIGN PERMITS:
Signs regulated by this chapter but not exempted by the provisions of
subsection
10-7-1C of this chapter may be erected only after issuance of a permit by the
zoning administrator. A permit will be issued only according to the following
requirements and procedures:
   A.   Application: An application for construction, creation or installation
of a new sign or for modification of an existing sign must be accompanied by
detailed drawing to show the dimensions, design, structure and location of each
particular sign. One application and permit may include multiple signs on the
same lot.
   B.   Procedures: The following procedures will govern the application for
and issuance of all sign permits under this title:
      1.   All applications for sign permits must be submitted to the zoning
administrator on an application form provided by the zoning administrator or
according to application specifications published by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      2.   Each application for a sign permit must be accompanied by the
applicable fees as provided in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   Within five (5) business days of receiving an application for a sign
permit, the zoning administrator must review it for completeness. If the zoning
administrator finds that it is complete, the application will then be
processed. If the zoning administrator finds that it is incomplete, the zoning
administrator will, within the same five (5) day period, send to the applicant
a notice of the specific ways in which the application is deficient, with
references to the applicable sections of this title.
      4.   Within seven (7) days of the submission of a complete application
for a sign permit, the zoning administrator will either:
         a.   Issue the sign permit, if the proposed sign conforms in every
respect with the requirements of this title and other provisions of the city
code; or
         b.   Deny the sign permit if the proposed sign fails in any way to
conform to the requirements of this title or other provisions of the city code.
In case of a denial, the zoning administrator must specify in the denial the
section of this title or other applicable ordinance with which the sign is
inconsistent.
   C.   Lapse Of Sign Permit On Vacated Or Unoccupied Property: A sign permit
will also lapse if the business activity on the premises is discontinued for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more and is not renewed within
thirty (30) days of a notice to the last permittee, sent to the premises, that
the sign permit will lapse if the activity is not renewed.
   D.   Permits For Temporary Signs: Temporary signs on private property are
allowed only in accordance with the provisions of section
10-7-6 of this chapter:
      1.   A temporary sign permit will allow the use of temporary signage for
a specified period subject to all of the requirements for temporary signs in
this chapter; and
      2.   A temporary sign will become an illegal sign if not removed upon the
expiration of the period covered by the permit.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-8: UNSAFE, OBSOLETE OR NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Unsafe Signs:
      1.   If the zoning administrator finds that any sign is unsafe or
insecure, or is a menace to the public, he or she must give written notice to
the person to whom the building permit has been issued.
      2.   If the owner fails to remove or alter the sign to bring it into
compliance with this title within ten (10) days after the notice, the zoning
administrator may remove or alter the sign to comply at the expense of the sign
permit issuee or owner of the property upon which it is located.
      3.   The zoning administrator may cause any sign that is an immediate
peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice.
      4.   The zoning administrator is responsible for the inspection of the
condition of signs and to investigate complaints issued regarding signs.
   B.   Obsolete Signs:
      1.   Any obsolete sign that does not advertise a bona fide business
conducted or a product sold, must be taken down and removed by the owner, agent
or person using the structure upon which the sign is located.
      2.   Removal must occur within ten (10) days after written notification
from the zoning administrator. Upon failure to comply with the notice within
the time specified in the notice, the zoning administrator may cause removal of
the sign. Any expenses related to removal must be paid by the property owner
where the sign is located.
      3.   At the time of termination of a business or commercial or industrial
enterprise, all signs pertaining to the use must be removed from public view.
   C.   Nonconforming Signs: All signs not in conformance with this chapter
must comply with the regulations of section
10-12-7 of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-7-9: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   All signs must be adequately maintained to keep them in a state of good
appearance and repair. Painted signs will be considered in need of refinishing
if:
      1.   Twenty percent (20%) or more of the surface is missing or shows
evidence of peeling, checking, cracking or blistering of the paint.
      2.   Twenty percent (20%) or more of the surface shows evidence of
mildew.
      3.   The colors used have faded appreciably and the surface sheen is
gone.
   B.   All sign framing and support structures must be adequately maintained
to keep them in a state of good appearance and repair.
   C.   Illuminated signs will be considered in need of repair if twenty
percent (20%) or more of the light bulbs are not fully illuminated, or if
twenty percent (20%) or more of the surface area of an internally illuminated
sign is not illuminated.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 8: FLOOD PROTECTION STANDARDS
Section
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Flood Insurance Rate Map
10-8-4: Administration
10-8-5: Penalties For Violation
10-8-6: Base Flood Elevation
10-8-7: New Construction And Substantial Improvements
10-8-8: Manufactured Homes
10-8-9: Utilities
10-8-10: Subdivisions And Other Development Standards
10-8-11: Watercourse Standards
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to avoid hazards to persons and damage to
property resulting from flooding and to comply with the national flood
insurance program and related regulations as promulgated by the federal
emergency management agency and the federal insurance administration as revised
and which are hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the city
clerk, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-30-2.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the crest
of the base flood.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, construction of or substantial improvements to
buildings or other structures, the placement of manufactured homes, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters, or
the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff or surface waters from any source.
MANUFACTURED HOME OR PREFABRICATED BUILDING: A structure, transportable in one
(1) or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities. For the purpose of this chapter, it does not include recreational
vehicles or travel trailers unless installed on a site for one hundred eighty
(180) or more days.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home and a
prefabricated building.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is
started, or if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project or improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure or site documented as deserving
preservation by the Illinois department of conservation or listed on the
national register of historic places.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-3: FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP:
The flood insurance rate map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency (map panels 170014CO250C, 17011CO400C, effective August 2, 2011, and
amendments thereto) is hereby adopted for the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Permit Required: No person may commence any construction, substantial
improvement, subdivision of land, placement of manufactured homes or other
development in areas located in an A zone without first obtaining a permit from
the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator may not issue the permit for
any construction, substantial improvement or other development that does not
comply with the provisions of this chapter or that has been denied a permit
required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the federal water
pollution control act, 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Within areas designated as A zones, each application for development
must be accompanied by elevations, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
habitable floor, including basement, and in the case of floodproofed
structures, the elevation to which it will be floodproofed.
      2.   The zoning administrator will require certification from a
registered professional engineer or architect that floodproofing methods are
adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces, and other factors associated with the base flood.
      3.   The application must also contain information or certification as
reasonably may be required by the zoning administrator in order to determine
eligibility for permits or to enforce the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Variances: See section
10-11-17, “Variations From Subdivision Requirements”, of this title.
   D.   Reports And Records:
      1.   The zoning administrator must provide the city council, the Illinois
department of transportation, the Illinois department of natural resources
office of water resources and the federal insurance administration with an
annual report on forms as provided the city by the federal insurance
administration.
      2.   The zoning administrator must maintain the records of first floor
elevations, floodproofing certifications, all variance documents required by 44
C.F.R. 60.6(a)(5) and of the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program; permit applications; and all other records required by the
federal insurance administration.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-5: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
See chapter 13, “Violations, Penalties And Enforcement”, of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-6: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
The city council must obtain, review and reasonably utilize base flood
elevation data available from federal, state, or other sources until such time
as such data has been received from the federal insurance administration. Base
flood data received from the federal insurance administration will take
precedence over data from other sources. No increase in the base flood
elevation may be permitted unless:
   A.   The total cumulative effect on the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the base
flood elevation more than one foot (1') for the affected hydraulic reach of the
stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages;
   B.   A permit has been issued by the Illinois department of transportation,
division of water resources, as required by this chapter;
   C.   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the city must submit sufficient data to the federal emergency
management agency to revise the regulatory flood maps and profiles.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-7: NEW CONSTRUCTION AND SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS:
All new construction and substantial improvements to structures located in an A
zone must:
   A.   For residential structures, have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. Beneath the lowest
elevated floor of an elevated residential building, all electrical, plumbing,
ventilating, heating and air conditioning equipment, related ductwork and
utility meters must be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
Elevated residential buildings must have permanent openings no more than one
foot (1') above grade, and the walls and floors must not be subject to damage
by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood.
   B.   For nonresidential structures, have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated or floodproofed to one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation.
   C.   Be designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   D.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage.
   E.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage to
other properties.
   F.   Have all structural components below the base flood elevation designed
to be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water,
and such structural components must be designed to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-8: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions located
in the A zone must file evacuation plans indicating vehicular access and escape
routes, including manufactured home hauler routes, with the appropriate
disaster preparedness authorities.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed on a site located in an A zone
must:
      1.   Have the lowest floor elevated one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation.
      2.   In the instance of elevation on pilings, have all piling foundations
placed in stable soil no more than ten feet (10') apart, and reinforcement must
be provided for piers more than six feet (6') aboveground.
      3.   Have lots large enough to permit steps to the manufactured home and
have adequate surface drainage on all sides of the structure.
      4.   Be placed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure due to flooding.
      5.   Be anchored according to the following specifications:
         a.   Over the top ties must be provided at each of the four (4)
corners of the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at
intermediate locations, and manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long
will require one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties must be provided at each corner of the manufactured
home with five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, and
manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long will require four (4)
additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system must be capable of
carrying four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the manufactured home must be similarly
anchored.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-9: UTILITIES:
All new construction and substantial improvements to utilities located in an A
zone must provide that:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into the floodwaters.
   C.   All new and replacement on site waste disposal systems must be located
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems must be located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-10: SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All subdivisions and other development located in an A zone must provide that:
   A.   All subdivision and other development proposals must be designed to
minimize flood damage to the proposed subdivision or development site as well
as to other properties.
   B.   Adequate drainage must be provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   C.   For any proposed subdivision or new development greater than fifty (50)
lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, the applicant must show the
base flood elevation data for each lot or platted parcel. Provided, that if the
base flood elevation data is not available, the applicant must compute and
provide this information for each lot or platted parcel greater than fifty (50)
lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-8-11: WATERCOURSE STANDARDS:
The zoning administrator must notify adjacent communities and the Illinois
department of transportation, division of water resources and the federal
insurance administration prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse. The flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse must be maintained.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 9: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
10-9-1: Improvements Required
10-9-2: Construction Of Subdivision Improvements
10-9-3: Performance Guarantees
10-9-4: Homeowners’ Association Responsibilities
10-9-5: Monuments
10-9-6: Easements And Dedications
10-9-7: Blocks
10-9-8: Lots
10-9-9: Streets
10-9-10: Sidewalks
10-9-11: Landscaping
10-9-12: Water Supply Systems
10-9-13: Sewage Disposal Facilities
10-9-14: Stormwater Management Facilities
10-9-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Subdividers are responsible for the construction, installation and
maintenance of the following improvements in accordance with the standards of
this title in addition to any federal, state or local standards:
      1.   All roads within the subdivision and improvements to existing roads
required for safe and adequate access to the subdivision as may be required by
this title;
      2.   Water supply and wastewater systems;
      3.   Stormwater management facilities;
      4.   Electrical improvements;
      5.   Any other improvements required by this chapter or required at the
time of preliminary plat approval.
   B.   The requirements of this chapter also apply to nonsubdivision
development when such improvements are required to serve the development, or as
otherwise specifically stated in this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-2: CONSTRUCTION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Requirements: Before a final plat will be approved, the
engineer for the city must certify that the improvements described in the
subdivider’s plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all provisions of this title and that they comply with
the following:
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   Where not specified by this chapter, all construction work must
comply with the provisions of the most recent version of the “Standard
Specification For Road And Bridge Construction” adopted by the Illinois
department of transportation, commonly referred to as the “standard
specifications”.
      2.   Where not specified by this chapter, design standards must comply
with the provisions of the most recent version of the “Highway Standards”
manual as published by the Illinois department of transportation, commonly
referred to as the “highway standards”.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   B.   Deviation From Plans And Specifications: No substantial deviation from
the plans and specifications as approved by the engineer for the city will be
allowed without the written permission of the city council. Field changes will
be allowed by the engineer for the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
10-9-3: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES:
   A.   Forms And Conditions Of Performance Guarantees: Performance guarantees
must be made payable to the city in the form of a surety bond, letter of
credit, certificate of deposit or another surety instrument acceptable to the
city council. The guarantee must be conditioned upon the performance of all
work necessary to complete the specified improvements. Should the developer
fail to properly install all improvements within the term of the guarantee, the
city may draw on the funds to complete the improvements. Until official
acceptance of the improvements by the city, the owner is responsible for all
maintenance of the required improvements.
      1.   Amount: The amount of the guarantee must be a minimum of one hundred
percent (100%) of the estimate of the probable cost of the improvements,
estimated by the owner and approved by the city council.
      2.   Term: Guarantees must be posted for a minimum eighteen (18) month
period. Upon request by the property owner, the city council, for good cause
and with the approval of the provider of the guarantee, may extend the term for
up to one additional year. However, as a condition of extension of the
guarantee, the city council is authorized to request an updated cost estimate
and increased guarantee for the remainder of the outstanding improvements, if
it determines that the original guarantee may no longer be sufficient to cover
the current cost of the outstanding improvements.
      3.   Release Of Guarantee: The performance guarantee will be released
when:
         a.   All improvements are completed according to approved plans and
the requirements of this title, and are certified by all appropriate agencies;
         b.   Four (4) sets of approved as built plans for all improvements
have been submitted to the city, including one (1) Mylar copy;
         c.   Final waiver of liens for all materials and labor necessary for
the installation of improvements is submitted; and
         d.   Final acceptance has been made by the city council.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-4: HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION RESPONSIBILITIES:
Where required to be established, a “homeowners’ association”, as defined in
this title, is responsible for enforcement of private covenants and
restrictions within a subdivision, condominium, or other specified development.
The association must be established and approved as a condition of plat or
development approval and is responsible for the cost and maintenance of all
private streets, common open space, landscape areas (which may include those
within cul-de-sac islands, around identification signs and within required
transition yards), stormwater facilities and other private facilities within a
development that are not dedicated to the public.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-5: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Two (2) permanent monuments must be placed at exterior corners of each
subdivision. Permanent monuments must be concrete six inches (6") in diameter
with an iron bar or pipe at least five-eighths inch (5/8") in diameter and
thirty inches (30") long at the center of the monument.
   B.   All lot corners, exterior corners, points of curvature and points of
tangency not marked by permanent monuments must be marked by iron pipes or bars
at least one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and thirty inches (30") in length.
   C.   A minimum of one permanent elevated benchmark must be established for
each subdivision. This monument must be constructed according to the
requirements for permanent monuments as described in this section.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-6: EASEMENTS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Access Easements (Private Streets): Private streets are not permitted;
except, that the plan commission may approve private streets that serve three
(3) or fewer lots. Private streets, if approved, must be constructed according
to the standards for roads in this title, and means must be established for
private maintenance. Private streets must be labeled on the final plat as
follows: “This subdivision contains private streets that will not be maintained
by the city or any other public agency. Property owners within the subdivision
are responsible for all maintenance.” A sign identifying the street as a
private street must be placed at the street’s entrance, according to city
specifications. The maintenance of private streets will be the responsibility
of the abutting property owners or established homeowners’ association.
   B.   Utility Easements: Utility easements must be provided for any overhead
or underground utility service and must be at least twelve feet (12') wide.
Easements must be located across lots or along rear or side property lines and
must be designed to provide continuity of alignment from block to block and to
adjoining unsubdivided areas.
   C.   Watercourse And Drainage Easements: Where a subdivision is traversed by
a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, a stormwater easement or
drainage right of way conforming substantially to the lines of the watercourse
must be provided.
   D.   Land Dedications:
      1.   Whenever the plan commission determines that a park, recreation
area, school site, library or other public space should be located in whole or
in part in the proposed subdivision, the plan commission will request the
dedication of those sites or will require their reservation for a period of one
year following the date of the final approval of the subdivision plat. If a
governmental agency passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the
reserved land within the reservation year, the reservation period will be
extended for one additional year.
      2.   Land to be dedicated to the public must be labeled on the final plat
as follows: “Dedicated to the (public agency) for (intended use of dedicated
land).”
      3.   All lands offered to the city for use as streets, alleys, schools,
parks, libraries and other public uses must be referred to the plan commission
for review and recommendation before being accepted by the council or by any
other governing authority of the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-7: BLOCKS:
   A.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks must be determined with due
consideration given to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the type of use
contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Blocks must be at least four hundred feet (400') long but no longer
than one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800'). Crosswalk easements are required
for blocks more than eight hundred feet (800') long. Crosswalk easements must
be at least twelve feet (12') wide and located where deemed necessary by the
plan commission. The plan commission may also require additional crosswalks to
provide safe and convenient access to schools, parks, shopping areas or other
destinations.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-8: LOTS:
   A.   The lot size, dimensions, shape and orientation must be appropriate for
the location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   B.   Lot dimensions and areas must conform to the requirements of chapter 4
of this title.
   C.   All side property lines must be substantially at right angles to the
street right of way, or radial to curved street right of way.
   D.   All residential lots must front directly on a public street or a
permanent access easement to a public street that is at least twenty feet (20')
wide, as permitted by subsection
10-9-6A of this chapter.
   E.   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots are prohibited in
residential districts except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries.
   F.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream must have
additional width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and
afford the minimum usable area required in chapter 4 of this title for front,
rear and side setbacks.
   G.   Excessive depth in relation to width should be avoided. The depth of a
lot should not exceed three (3) times its average width.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-9: STREETS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets must be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
      2.   In the case of tentative plats for parts of tracts, where it appears
necessary to the plan commission for the satisfactory overall development of an
area, an owner may be required to prepare at least a street plan of his or her
entire tract based upon proper topographic surveys before approval of any
portion of such plan.
      3.   Whenever an area is subdivided into lots of forty thousand (40,000)
square feet or more that may at a later date be resubdivided, consideration
must be given to the street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so
that additional minor streets can be located to permit a logical arrangement of
smaller lots.
      4.   In the layout of all subdivisions, due regard must be given to the
preservation of historical sites and natural features such as large trees,
watercourses and scenic views.
   B.   Street Layout: The arrangement of streets in a subdivision must either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in the surrounding area; or
      2.   Meet a particular situation where topographical, drainage or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   C.   Frontage Roads:
      1.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
highway or interstate highway, the plan commission may require:
         a.   Frontage roads;
         b.   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation along the rear property line;
         c.   Deep lots with rear service alleys;
         d.   Other treatments as necessary for protection of residential
properties and to separate through and local traffic.
      2.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way
or limited access highway right of way, the plan commission may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right of way, at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, for park
purposes in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
the appropriate districts. Such distances must be determined also with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   D.   Half Streets Prohibited: No building permit will be issued for the
construction of a building on a lot that abuts a public right of way dedicated
to one-half (1/2) or less of its proposed width.
   E.   Street Dimensions: All streets must conform to the following
requirements:
 Arterial Collector And Local                                     Industrial
 Streets  Multi- Family Residential Frontage Roads Business Parks Parks
          Streets       Streets
              Arterial Collector And Local        Frontage Business Industrial
              Streets  Multi- Family Residential  Roads    Parks    Parks
                       Streets       Streets
                                     60 (curb/
Right of way  80­100  70            gutter); 66  50       80­100  80­100
width (feet)                         (no curb/
                                     gutter)
Pavement                             33 (curb/
width (back                          gutter); 24
of curb to    48­72   36            (no curb/    28       48       40
back of curb,                        gutter)
in feet)
Minimum
radius of
horizontal
curves (road  600      400           100          200      500      400
centerline
dimension, in
feet)
Vertical
curve sight
distance
(measured at
4.5 feet      400      300           200          200      400      400
above the
center of the
roadway, in
feet)
Minimum
tangents
between
reverse       200      200           100          100      200      200
curves (road
centerline
dimension, in
feet)
Maximum
gradient      3        3             6            6        3        3
(percent)
Minimum
gradient      0.4      0.4           0.4          0.4      0.4      0.4
(percent)
Minimum curb
tangents at
street        30       25            25           25       30       30
intersections
(feet)
 
   F.   Intersections:
      1.   Streets must intersect as nearly to right angles as possible, with
no intersection less than sixty degrees (60°).
      2.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') are prohibited.
   G.   Cul-de-sac Streets:
      1.   Permanent dead end streets may not be longer than five hundred feet
(500') and must be provided with a cul-de-sac turnaround with a pavement radius
of at least fifty feet (50') and a right of way radius of at least seventy feet
(70'). Other types of turnarounds are prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1731.png]
 
      2.   Where a cul-de-sac island is provided, the island must be landscaped
and the pavement width must be twenty feet (20'). Landscape islands within cub-
de-sac islands must be maintained by the adjoining property owners or
established homeowners’ association.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1733.png]
 
   H.   Stub Streets:
      1.   Where an existing street terminates at the boundary line of a
proposed subdivision, the street must be continued in the proposed subdivision
unless natural conditions on the adjacent property preclude continuation of the
street.
      2.   When a proposed street terminates at the subdivision boundary, right
of way lines and pavement must extend to the subdivision boundary if the
adjacent property is undeveloped. The following notation must be placed on the
final plat: “Future access connection for adjacent development”.
   I.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys are prohibited in residential areas except where approved by
the plan commission.
      2.   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts. The
plan commission must refer any variations to the city council for waiving this
requirement if provisions are made for service access such as off street
loading, unloading and parking, consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed.
      3.   Where provided, alleys must have a minimum right of way width of
twenty feet (20').
      4.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment must be avoided
where possible, but where necessary, corners must be cut off sufficiently to
permit safe vehicular movement.
      5.   Dead end alleys must be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
must be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the plan commission.
   J.   Surfacing: The following types of street surfacing are minimum
requirements:
      1.   Local Residential Streets:
         a.   Three inch (3") bituminous surface on an eight inch (8") base; or
         b.   Six inch (6") concrete surface on a four inch (4") compacted
base.
      2.   Arterial And Collector Streets: Three inch (3") thick bituminous
concrete dense graded aggregate type, class B, subclass B-S, on a twelve inch
(12") base course.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   K.   Curbs And Gutters:
      1.   Concrete curbs (type B-6.12 as specified in the most recent edition
of the highway standards of the Illinois department of transportation) must be
installed on all new streets, except in detached single-family subdivisions
where a mountable curb of similar dimensions may be approved by the engineer
for the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   Where curb and gutter are not required, streets must be constructed
with:
         a.   Three inch (3") thick bituminous surface on eight inch (8")
compacted aggregate base for street construction;
         b.   Shoulders consisting of the same material as the required
aggregate base course, extending two feet (2') beyond each edge of the
bituminous surface;
         c.   Ditches a minimum of two feet (2') deep with slopes no steeper
than four to one (4:1); and
         d.   Minimum twelve inch (12") diameter pipe culverts for driveways
and minimum fifteen inch (15") diameter pipe culverts for crossroad culverts.
   L.   Street Names: Street names may not be similar to or duplicate the names
of existing streets. New streets that are extensions of existing streets must
bear the name of the existing street. All street names are subject to the
approval of the plan commission.
   M.   Street Signs And Markers: The subdivider must purchase and install
street name signs that conform to the standards of the city at one corner of
each street intersection.
   N.   Streetlights: Streetlights must be installed at all intersections and
at the end of all cul-de-sac and stub streets. Payment must be made by the
developer to the city for the installation of lighting standards, poles,
brackets, luminaries, lamps and wiring meeting all current city specifications.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-10: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   For properties being subdivided, sidewalks are required on both
sides of the street in the following instances:
         a.   Streets in residential subdivisions consisting of lots with an
average lot area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or less;
         b.   In subdivisions near or containing schools or along arterial or
collector streets where heavier traffic volumes may present safety problems for
pedestrians, as required by the city council;
         c.   In all multi-family or attached single-family subdivisions; and
         d.   In all mixed use or nonresidential subdivisions.
      2.   For properties being subdivided, sidewalks are required on one side
of the street in residential subdivisions consisting of lots with an average
lot area greater than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. This requirement
may be waived if a system of paved trails or pedestrian walkways is provided.
   B.   Dimensions And Locations:
      1.   Sidewalks must be constructed a minimum of one foot (1') from the
property line.
      2.   Sidewalks on collector and arterial streets and streets fronting on
multi-family, commercial or industrial development must be at least five feet
(5') wide.
      3.   Sidewalks for single-family development must be at least four feet
(4') wide.
      4.   Sidewalks must be constructed of concrete and must be at least four
inches (4") thick. Sidewalk thickness must be at least six inches (6") at
driveways.
      5.   Sidewalks must connect to existing adjacent sidewalk networks where
practicable.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-11: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   All improved areas within the dedicated street area or other public use
areas and all yards must be graded and seeded.
   B.   One tree must be planted along street frontages between the building
line and the front and corner property lines of each lot Once planted, the
maintenance of these trees is the responsibility of the property owner.
Required street trees must be installed on an individual lot prior to issuance
of a letter of occupancy for that lot in accordance with section
10-11-20 of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-12: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   No subdivision may be approved without water supply systems that
comply with this section, or the posting of surety bonds guaranteeing such
improvements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      2.   All water supply systems must be designed and constructed according
to all applicable rules, regulations and standards contained ordinances of the
city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the “Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois”. All water
supply systems must be designed at a minimum of one inch (1") in diameter or
larger to provide adequate water pressure and flow for the intended use,
including fire protection, and must be approved by the engineer for the city.
   B.   Public Water Systems: The facilities on the site must be designed and
installed to connect to the public water system with approval by the engineer
for the city, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Water System Design And Construction:
      1.   Water mains, fire hydrants and services shall be provided to serve
all lots and to provide for reasonable expansion of the system. When possible,
water mains shall be interconnected so as to avoid “dead ends”. All valves
shall be enclosed in valve boxes. Fire hydrants shall be located so as to be
within two hundred feet (200') of all homes and shall be of manufacture,
approved by the city with auxiliary valves and boxes. Water services shall be
type “k” copper of no smaller than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter.
      2.   The following types of water main pipe are allowed in the city’s
water distribution system:
         a.   Ductile Iron: Ductile iron water main shall be manufactured in
accordance with the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C150/A21.50 - “Standard
Specifications For Ductile Iron”, latest edition.
         b.   Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) C900: Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) water
main shall be manufactured in accordance with the requirements of ANSI/AWWA
C900-07 “Standard Specification For Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Compounds” with
material cell classification 12454 per ASTM D 1784, latest edition.
         c.   Molecularly Oriented Polyvinyl Chloride (PVCO) C909: Molecularly
oriented polyvinyl chloride (PVCO) water main shall be manufactured in
accordance with the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C909-09 “Standard Specification
For Molecularly Oriented Polyvinyl Chloride (PVCO) Compounds” with material
cell classification 12454 per ASTM D 1784, latest edition.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-13: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   No subdivision may be approved without sewage disposal facilities
that comply with this section, or the posting of surety bonds guaranteeing such
improvements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      2.   All sewage disposal facilities must be designed and constructed
according to all applicable rules, regulations and standards contained in the
ordinances of the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, the
“Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois”,
and all other applicable agencies. Plans, specifications and construction must
be approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency, health department,
and the engineer for the city. Before recommending approval of a subdivision,
the plan commission must consider the availability of sewage disposal
facilities to the proposed subdivision. Regardless of the location or lot size,
a subdivision will be disapproved if the health department finds that the
drainage, soil conditions, disposal facilities or other conditions may create a
hazard to public health.
   B.   Public Sewer Systems: The facilities on the site must be designed and
installed to connect to the public sewer system with the approval of the
engineer for the city according to the requirements of this section, unless an
individual sewage collection and disposal system is permitted under subsection
C of this section.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Individual Sewage Collection And Disposal Systems: The city requires
that lots be serviced by public sewage collection and disposal systems. The
city council will not consider approval of a preliminary plat or building
permit for lots that are not proposed to be serviced by public sewage and
disposal facilities unless written approval for construction of such facilities
have been provided by Bureau County. Any request for individual sewage
collection and disposal systems must be approved by the Bureau County health
department and Illinois private sewage disposal code which control their
design. Where septic systems and individual wells are approved by the city and
county, data regarding their location and construction specifications must be
included on the final plat as required by this title.
   D.   Sewer System Design And Construction:
      1.   Sanitary sewers and services of approved design and capacity with a
minimum earth cover of three feet (3') must be provided to serve all lots and
to provide for reasonable expansions of the system.
      2.   Sanitary sewers must be designed using the criteria of the state of
Illinois department of health.
      3.   Sanitary sewer manholes must be located at points that will minimize
the possibility of submergence in storms.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-9-14: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Applicability: The regulations of this section apply to all
development, as described herein.
   B.   Cost Of Construction: A properly designed storm sewer system must be
provided at the expense of the owner or developer of a subdivision or other
tract of land as required by this section.
   C.   Permits:
      1.   Storm Sewer Permits:
         a.   No connection to or extension of any storm sewer in the city may
made until a permit has been issued.
         b.   Storm sewer application permits must be accompanied by three (3)
sets of plans and specifications for review prepared by a registered
professional engineer of Illinois.
         c.   When the plans and specifications are approved and a permit has
been issued, the applicant must furnish the city with an additional three (3)
sets of plans and specifications.
         d.   The city must be given an advance notice of forty eight (48)
hours before any construction begins.
      2.   Excavation Permits:
         a.   A permit is required for any excavation for constructing,
repairing or replacing a storm sewer in any location.
         b.   A cash deposit for ground restoration in the amount set by the
city council must be paid prior to issuance of an excavation permit. The ground
must be restored to the city’s standards. If the ground is not restored to the
city’s specifications, restoration may be completed at the city’s expense with
costs deducted from a required deposit amount, with the balance of the deposit
returned after all restoration has been completed.
   D.   Certificate Of Insurance:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation performing work under this section
must take out and maintain during the construction of the project liability and
property damage insurance that will protect him or her, the city and the city’s
representatives from claims from liability and property damages that may arise
from construction of the work.
      2.   The city must be furnished certificates of insurance issued by the
companies carrying the risk, and the certificates must be in form and substance
satisfactory to and approved by the city.
   E.   Design And Construction Standards: The design and construction of the
storm sewer system and stormwater storage facilities within the jurisdiction of
the city must conform to the most restrictive of the requirements contained in
the latest edition of the following regulations, standards and specifications,
which will be on file in the city clerk’s office:
      1.   “Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois”.
      2.   “Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction”, Illinois
department of transportation.
      3.   “Design Manual”, state of Illinois, department of public works and
buildings, division of highways, bureau of design.
      4.   “Highway Standards”, state of Illinois, department of public works
and building division of highways, bureau of design.
      5.   “Manual Of Policies And Procedures”, location and environment,
Illinois department of transportation.
   F.   Rainwater Drains: No rainwater drain may discharge onto any sidewalk or
public way, and no drain may discharge onto any public street or alley at a
height greater than eighteen inches (18") above grade.
   G.   Storm Sewers For Impervious Areas:
      1.   Storm sewers and catch basins must be provided for all impervious
surface areas larger than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet when
a public storm sewer is no more than one hundred feet (100') from the property
line measured along a public right of way or sewer system easement.
      2.   One catch basin must be provided for the first thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet of impervious area and one additional catch basin must be
provided for every additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of impervious
area or fraction thereof.
      3.   All other impervious areas must be designed to drain to a public
street or an existing open watercourse. No drainage may be allowed to pass onto
adjoining property or over public sidewalks unless at the point where a
driveway intersects the sidewalk.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   H.   Subdivisions: No plat may be approved for a subdivision that is subject
to periodic flooding or which contains poor drainage facilities and which would
make adequate drainage of the lots and streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements that will, in the opinion of the
engineer for the city, make the area safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate lot and street drainage, the preliminary plat of the subdivision may
be approved.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   I.   Connection Of Sanitary Wastes To Storm Sewers Or Watercourses: No
sanitary sewage may discharge into any portion of the city storm drainage
system or any watercourse.
   J.   Storm Sewer Capacity:
      1.   Storm sewer capacities must be designed for a minimum ten (10) year
storm frequency. Storm sewer capacities will be determined using the rational
formula (Q = CiA, where Q = peak runoff rate in cubic feet/second, C = runoff
coefficient, i = average intensity of rainfall in inches/hour, A = drainage
area in acres).
      2.   When stormwater storage is required, provision must be made to
transport stormwater runoff from a 100-year storm frequency from the fully
developed area of the site to the stormwater storage area. The additional
stormwater runoff resulting from the design for a 100-year storm frequency may
be transported to the stormwater storage area over streets, parking areas,
parks, playgrounds or other open spaces, including utility easements.
      3.   The storm sewer system must have adequate capacity to adequately
drain all tributary drainage areas through the property, and there will be no
compensation to the owner or developer by the city for the increased pipe sizes
and construction costs, if any.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      4.   In any subdivision, lot, or parcel of land where it is determined by
the engineer for the city that the storm sewer would be larger than ninety six
inches (96"), based on a twenty (20) year storm frequency, then a ditch or
drainage channel meeting the following standards may be used if the council so
approves.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         a.   With grades to four percent (4%), ditches may have earth bottoms
and sod banks.
         b.   With grades greater than four percent (4%), ditches must be
paved.
         c.   All ditches must have side slopes of not less than five to one
(5:1).
         d.   Easements for all ditches must be dedicated to the city and there
must be provided, in addition to the necessary width required for the ditch, a
strip of land on each side of the ditch of a width of fifteen feet (15'), such
distance to be measured perpendicular to trees, poles, structures and other
obstructions. The slope of these side areas to the ditch may not exceed five
percent (5%). There may be no trees, bushes or obstructions of any kind placed
in this area.
         e.   Culverts or bridges must be provided at all street crossings and
must be sized to eliminate flooding or ponding of water and must have a minimum
cover of twelve inches (12"). Culverts or bridges must be reinforced concrete
or precast reinforced concrete pipes with necessary headwalls. Culverts or
bridges must extend a minimum of five feet (5') past each right of way line of
the street and must extend far enough to provide a minimum slope of five to one
(5:1) from the right of way line down to the invert of the pipe.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
         f.   All ditches, bridges and culverts must be located and designed in
accordance with current applicable standards as amended from time to time and
requirements of the engineer for the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         g.   All culverts or bridges must be provided with suitable railings
and/or guardrails as required and approved by the city.
   K.   Manholes And Catch Basins: Manholes must be provided at all changes in
direction and at intermediate points not exceeding three hundred fifty feet
(350') apart. Catch basins with curb inlets must be provided as required by the
“Design Manual”, state of Illinois, department of public works and buildings.
   L.   Stormwater Storage Facilities:
      1.   Where Required:
         a.   Nonresidential Development: A properly designed stormwater
storage facility must be provided by the developer of all nonresidential
developments that contain an area greater than one (1) acre or, if less than
one (1) acre, where fifty percent (50%) or more of the area is covered with
impervious improvements, unless an approved facility exists for the property.
This requirement does not apply to replacement of improvements on property in
cases where the impervious coverage of the development is not increased.
         b.   Residential Development: Stormwater storage must be provided for
all residential developments larger than two (2) acres. This requirement does
not apply to replacement of improvements on property in cases where the
impervious coverage of the development is not increased.
      2.   Basis Of Design:
         a.   The necessary volume of stormwater storage will be calculated on
the basis of a one hundred (100) year storm frequency using the criteria
established by the metropolitan sanitary district of Greater Chicago. The
volume required will be that necessary to handle the runoff for a one hundred
(100) year storm for any and all durations, from the fully developed drainage
area of the site tributary to the reservoir less that volume discharged during
the same duration as the allowable release rate.
         b.   No stormwater storage will be required for off site upstream
areas.
         c.   Flows from off site tributary areas resulting from a ten (10)
year storm frequency will be drained through the storm sewer system provided
for the site. Off site flow in excess of the ten (10) year storm frequency must
be bypassed through the site as overland flow and must be calculated using the
one hundred (100) year storm frequency.
   M.   Allowable Release Rate: The allowable release rate of stormwater runoff
from the developed drainage area of the site must not exceed the existing
capacity of the downstream storm sewer system or drainage channel, but in no
case may the discharge be more than the runoff of the existing site using a C
factor of 0.2 and a five (5) year rainfall frequency in the rational formula.
No outlet pipe may be of a diameter of less than eight inches (8") and of a
diameter so as not to restrict the designed allowable release rate from any
stormwater storage facility. Outlet control facilities other than pipes must be
constructed of reinforced concrete. Outlet pipes from storage areas must be
approved by the city. This limitation applies only to improvements constructed
pursuant to building permits applied for after the effective date specified in
section
10-1-2 of this title.
   N.   Bypass:
      1.   The drainage system that is provided for the site must have adequate
capacity to safely bypass through the development the flow resulting from a one
hundred (100) year storm frequency from all upstream areas assuming the land is
in a fully developed state under present zoning or proposed zoning outlined in
the comprehensive plan. The flow must be calculated using a runoff coefficient
of not less than 0.50. An allowance must be made for any upstream stormwater
storage that has actually been provided.
      2.   The required bypass area for stormwater in excess of the volume
handled by the storm sewer system may consist of streets, parking areas, parks,
playgrounds or other open spaces, including utility easements. There may be no
habitable structures located within this bypass area that is used as a
floodway, and this bypass area may not be reshaped or restricted in any way to
reduce its effective capacity.
      3.   The design of the bypass area must take into consideration the
control of the stormwater velocity to prevent erosion. The side slopes on any
drainage swale may not be steeper than five to one (5:1).
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   O.   Stormwater Storage Areas: The required volume of stormwater storage may
be provided in paved parking areas and in reservoirs with either a wet or dry
bottom. Alternate types of stormwater storage areas must be approved by the
engineer for the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   Parking Areas: The stormwater storage areas must be designed so that
the accumulation of water at any point in the parking lot during peak rainfall
does not exceed eight inches (8"). The parking lot must be sloped to drain at a
minimum of one percent (1%). The finished floor elevation of all buildings must
be set so that no damage would occur if a storm in excess of the 100-year storm
frequency occurs or if the drainage outlet becomes plugged.
      2.   Dry Bottom Reservoirs:
         a.   A dry bottom type of reservoir may be designed to serve a
secondary purpose for recreation, open space or other types of uses that will
not be adversely affected by periodic flooding.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
         b.   A paved ditch with a slope of not less than 0.50 percent will be
required from the inlet pipe or structure to the outlet pipe or structure to
prevent erosion of the bottom of the reservoir when the capacity of the inlet
pipe exceeds five (5) cfs or when the inlet pipe has a constant flow, even
during dry weather. In certain cases, dry bottom reservoirs must have a pipe
underdrain system as required by the engineer for the city. The paved ditch
must meet the requirements for paved ditches contained in the “Highway
Standards”, state of Illinois, department of public works and buildings,
division of highways, bureau of design.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         c.   The grassed bottom of the reservoir must slope to drain to the
outlet or paved ditch at a minimum of one percent (1%) slope. The side slopes
on the earth berm around the reservoir must not be steeper than five to one (5:
1), and the earth berm at the top may not be less than ten feet (10') wide.
         d.   The inlet and outlet pipes or structures from the reservoir must
be self-operating and require very limited maintenance. An emergency overflow
spillway must be provided from the reservoir in the event a storm frequency
occurs. The inlet and outlet pipes or structures must be provided with safety
bars with maximum openings of six inches (6") to provide for the safety of
children.
      3.   Wet Bottom Reservoirs:
         a.   Wet bottom storage reservoirs must be constructed to conform to
the current applicable requirements. The minimum depth from the normal water
level to the bottom of the side slope must be four feet (4'). A minimum of
twenty five percent (25%) of the pond area must be constructed to a minimum
depth of ten feet (10') to provide for fish.
         b.   Proper measures must be provided by the developer to prevent the
water from becoming stagnant.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
         c.   Where the soil in the bottom of the reservoir is too permeable to
hold water, the bottom must be sealed by an accepted method approved by the
engineer for the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         d.   The inlet and outlet pipes or structures from the reservoir must
be self-operating and requires very limited maintenance. An emergency overflow
spillway must be provided from the reservoir in the event a storm in excess of
the one hundred (100) year storm frequency occurs. The inlet and outlet pipes
or structures must be provided with safety bars with maximum openings of six
inches (6") to provide for the safety of children.
   P.   Requirements During Construction: Construction operations must be
conducted in such a manner as to minimize erosion potential on the site.
Silting of off site downstream areas must be controlled through the appropriate
use of sedimentation basins, including retention/detention facilities designed
for that purpose; provided, that such facilities will be restored to their
prior design configuration upon completion of construction operations. The
developer must indicate the methods and timing of construction to be used for
the control of siltation during construction operations at the time that final
engineering plans are submitted for approval.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   Q.   Approval: All work required to be done under this section must be
periodically inspected by and approval obtained from the city superintendent in
charge or engineer for the city as the work progresses. When the work is
completed, final approval must be obtained from the city superintendent in
charge or engineer for the city. Before final approval can be obtained, the
superintendent in charge or engineer for the city must inspect all work and see
that it has been completed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   R.   Stormwater Management Facility Maintenance:
      1.   Routine Maintenance: The homeowners’ association whose property or
common area includes all or a portion of an open drainage swale, channel,
detention basin or other stormwater management facilities will be held
responsible for the mowing of grass, removal of debris or obstructions to the
flow of water in or through such facilities, removal of silt, and maintenance
and repair due to erosion.
      2.   Nonroutine Maintenance:
         a.   Nonroutine maintenance, including maintenance activities that are
expensive but infrequent, such as pond dredging or major repairs to stormwater
structures, must be performed on an as needed basis based on information
gathered during regular inspections.
         b.   A legally binding covenant specifying the parties responsible for
proper maintenance of all stormwater management facilities must be provided by
the developer and approved by the city prior to final plat approval, or for
properties not subject to the plat approval process, prior to the issuance of
site plan approval or building permits, whichever comes first.
         c.   The maintenance agreement must include a description of
maintenance and repair procedures to be completed, including identification of
components that need to be maintained and standards for maintenance.
      3.   Inspections:
         a.   The persons or organizations responsible for maintenance must
inspect stormwater management facilities on a regular basis, as outlined in the
maintenance agreement.
         b.   Authorized representatives of the city may enter at reasonable
times upon any time to conduct on site inspections or routine maintenance.
   S.   Dams And Ponds:
      1.   A building permit is required prior to the construction of any pond
that requires the construction of a dam or is built within the path of flow of
a drainage basin that includes upstream or downstream properties that are
within the city limits.
         a.   Before a building permit is issued, the applicant must submit the
necessary documentation to the Illinois department of natural resources (IDNR)
so that IDNR can classify the dam and determine if a permit is required from
them. A preliminary design report is required to be submitted to the IDNR in
order for them to make that determination. If the dam requires a permit from
the IDNR, then the pond will need to comply with IDNR design requirements.
         b.   For the cases where the IDNR does not require a permit, the city
requires the following:
            (1)   Copy of preliminary design report as submitted to IDNR.
            (2)   A letter signed and sealed by a licensed professional
engineer certifying that:
               i.   The pond has been designed using generally accepted
engineering practices;
               ii.   All necessary permits have been obtained; and
               iii.   The proposed design complies with all applicable codes
and jurisdictional requirements, including those of the city.
            (3)   Plan of pond area, including existing and proposed contours,
five feet (5') beyond area to be regraded.
            (4)   Cross section through dam at outlet.
            (5)   The maximum slope of the ground around the pond (above the
normal water depth) shall be three to one (3:1) for a distance of at least
twenty feet (20').
            (6)   The maximum slope of the interior sides of the pond, below
normal water depth, shall be three to one (3:1).
            (7)   The top of the dam shall have a crest width of at least five
feet (5'). The maximum slopes on the sides of the dam shall be as required by
design for stability and shall be protected from erosion with riprap at all
inlets and outlets. The remaining dam surfaces shall be protected with either
riprap or vegetation.
            (8)   An emergency spillway shall be constructed at the top of the
dam, sized to accommodate a flow that is equal to the runoff from the area that
drains through the pond during a 100-year rain event. A freeboard of one foot
(1') shall be provided above this corresponding water surface elevation.
            (9)   The outlet for the pond shall consist of a horizontal orifice
inlet sized to accommodate the flow from the area that drains through the pond
during a ten (10) year rain event with the opening at the normal water depth.
The downstream invert of the outlet pipe shall release water from the pond at
an elevation equal to or below the toe of the dry side of the dam.
            (10)   It is suggested that an emergency outlet pipe be constructed
that will allow for the removal of water above the base of the dam. The
mechanism used to open the emergency outlet pipe shall be accessible from the
top or dry side of the dam.
            (11)   Ponds shall comply with the requirements of a “wet detention
pond” where design parameters are not otherwise specified.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 10: DECISION MAKING BODIES
Section
10-10-1: Plan Commission/Board Of Zoning Appeals
10-10-2: Zoning Administrator
10-10-3: City Council
10-10-4: Development Review Committee
10-10-1: PLAN COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment: One decision making body functions as both the plan
commission and board of zoning appeals for the city. The plan commission/board
of zoning appeals was previously established by the city council.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   The commission consists of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the city council.
      2.   Commission members serve terms of staggered five (5) year periods.
      3.   The chair is designated by the mayor.
      4.   If possible, members should be registered architects, registered
professional engineers, builders or real estate appraisers.
      5.   Vacancies will be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as
appointments for a full term.
   C.   Meetings And Rules:
      1.   The commission must organize and adopt rules of procedure for its
own government according to the provisions of this title.
      2.   Meetings will be held at the call of the chair and at other times
that the commission determines, and must be open to the public.
      3.   Minutes of the proceedings and a record of all actions must be kept
by the secretary, showing the vote of each member upon each question, the
reasons for the commission’s determination, and its finding of facts. These
records will be filed in the office of the zoning administrator and are a
public record.
      4.   Decisions on all matters before the commission require a concurring
vote of four (4) commission members.
   D.   Plan Commission Powers And Duties: The plan commission has the
following powers and duties:
      1.   To hear and make recommendations regarding applications for text
amendments, zoning map amendments, multi-family design review, special uses,
preliminary plats and planned developments, according to the requirements of
this title;
      2.   To request assistance from other city officers, departments,
commissions and boards;
      3.   The chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses; and
      4.   Along with the city council, to develop and update the comprehensive
plan to provide planning policies to guide future land use and zoning decisions
and to provide the basis for approval of all development under this title.
   E.   Board Of Zoning Appeals Powers And Duties: The board of zoning appeals
has the following powers and duties:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning administrator;
      2.   To hear and grant variations from the requirements of this title,
subject to the standards set out in this title;
      3.   To request assistance from other city officers, departments,
commissions and boards; and
      4.   The chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-10-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The zoning administrator is designated by the city
council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning administrator has the following powers
and duties:
      1.   To have the initial responsibility and authority for the
interpretation and enforcement of this title and all other applicable
ordinances, regulations and codes;
      2.   To enter and inspect any premises, as needed, in the performance of
these duties;
      3.   To attend all meetings of the plan commission/board of zoning
appeals for the purpose of providing technical assistance when requested by the
commission/board;
      4.   To review and issue building permits, sign permits and letters of
occupancy;
      5.   To hear and decide applications for interpretations of the use
classifications, land development regulations of this title, and zoning
district boundaries; and
      6.   To serve as a member of and call meetings of the development review
committee as needed.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-10-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council has the following powers and duties, in addition to those
established by other chapters of the city code:
   A.   Along with the plan commission, the city council must develop and
update the comprehensive plan to provide planning policies to guide future land
use and zoning decisions and to provide the basis for approval of all
development under this title;
   B.   To designate the zoning administrator;
   C.   To confirm members of the plan commission/board of zoning appeals;
   D.   To publish a revised zoning map according to subsection
10-1-8B of this title;
   E.   To give final approval for freestanding wireless communication
facilities;
   F.   To approve and accept subdivision improvements;
   G.   To give final approval for preliminary and final plats;
   H.   To propose and give final approval of text amendments to this title
according to section
10-11-2 of this title;
   I.   To propose and give final approval of amendments of the zoning map
according to section
10-11-3 of this title;
   J.   To give final approval for special uses and planned developments
according to sections
10-11-4,
10-11-5 and
10-11-6 of this title;
   K.   To issue mobile home park permits according to section
10-11-18 of this title;
   L.   To give final approval on applications for multi-family design review;
   M.   To hear and grant variations from the floodplain protection standards;
and
   N.   To give final approval for any other actions as required in this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-10-4: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment: The development review committee is established to
function as an advisory committee that provides initial feedback on development
proposals and site plans.
   B.   Membership: The development review committee consists of the zoning
administrator and staff representatives from city departments deemed necessary
by the zoning administrator to provide input on site plans and development
proposals.
   C.   Meetings: Meetings will be held at the request of the zoning
administrator as a part of the city’s regular internal staff meetings.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The development review committee has the following
powers and duties:
      1.   To review and provide recommendations on site plans; and
      2.   To review and provide input on applications for special uses, zoning
map amendments, and other applications when requested by the zoning
administrator.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 11: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
Section
10-11-1: General Provisions
10-11-2: Text Amendments
10-11-3: Zoning Map Amendments
10-11-4: Special Uses
10-11-5: Special Use Procedure
10-11-6: Planned Development Procedure
10-11-7: Site Plan Review
10-11-8: Multi-Family Design Review
10-11-9: Variations
10-11-10: Written Interpretations
10-11-11: Appeals
10-11-12: Subdivision Review And Platting, Generally
10-11-13: Preliminary Plat
10-11-14: Construction Plans
10-11-15: Final Plat
10-11-16: Certificates For Recording Of Final Plat
10-11-17: Variations From Subdivision Requirements
10-11-18: Mobile Home Park Permit
10-11-19: Building Permits
10-11-20: Letter Of Occupancy
10-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Summary Of Procedures: The following table provides a summary of the
review and approval procedures of this chapter. In the event of conflict
between this summary table and the detailed procedures contained elsewhere in
this chapter, the detailed procedures govern.
Hearing=Public hearing required
Final action=Granting of permit, approval or denial
 Soil And                   Development
 Water        Zoning        Review      Plan       City Council Board Of
 Conservation Administrator Committee   Commission              Zoning Appeals
 District
Hearing=Public hearing required
Final action=Granting of permit, approval or denial
                Soil And Water Zoning        Development Plan           City    Board Of
                Conservation   Administrator Review      Commission     Council Zoning
                District                     Committee                          Appeals
Text amendment                                        Hearing/       Final    
                                                         recommendation action
Map amendment   recommendation                         Hearing/       Final    
                                                         recommendation action
Multi-family                                          Hearing/       Final    
design review                                            recommendation action
Special uses                                          Hearing/       Final    
                                                         recommendation action
Planned                                               Hearing/       Final    
developments                                             recommendation action
Site plan                                  Final                             
review                                       action
                                                                                Hearing/
Variations                                                                 final
                                                                                action
Written                       Final action                                   
interpretations
                                                                                Hearing/
Appeals                                                                    final
                                                                                action
Preliminary                                           Hearing/       Final    
plat                                                     recommendation action
Final plat                                            Recommendation Final    
                                                                        action
Building permit               Final action                                   
Letter of                     Final action                                   
occupancy
Mobile home                   Final action                                   
park permit
 
   B.   Authority To File: Unless otherwise specifically stated in this
chapter, applications may be filed by the owner of the subject property.
   C.   Application Contents:
      1.   All applications required under this chapter must be submitted in a
form and in such numbers as required by the official responsible for accepting
the application. Application forms are available in the office of the official
responsible for accepting the application.
      2.   Officials responsible for accepting applications must maintain a
list specifying the materials and information to be submitted with each
application filed. The list must be made available to all applicants and to any
other person who requests a copy.
   D.   Application Completeness:
      1.   An application will be considered complete and ready for processing
only if it is submitted in the required number and form, includes all required
information and is accompanied by the required fee. The official responsible
for accepting the application has authority to determine whether the
application is complete.
      2.   If an application is deemed incomplete, written notice explaining
the deficiencies must be provided to the applicant.
      3.   No further processing of incomplete applications will occur until
the deficiencies are corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by the
applicant within ninety (90) days, the application will be considered
withdrawn.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   E.   Application Filing Fees: Applications must be accompanied by the fee as
provided in the city fee schedule. Fees are not required with applications
initiated by the plan commission or city council. Application fees are
nonrefundable.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Public Notice:
      1.   Written Notice: When provisions of this chapter require that
“written notice” be provided, such notice must be given as follows:
         a.   The applicant or his or her agent must provide written notice to
owners within two hundred feet (200') of the property lines of the subject
property.
         b.   Written notice must be mailed at least ten (10) days before the
public hearing.
         c.   All required written notices must be sent by USPS mail.
         d.   Written notices must contain:
            (1)   The date, time and location of any upcoming public hearings
on the matter;
            (2)   The address of the subject property;
            (3)   A description of the nature and purpose of the application;
            (4)   The name and address of the applicant; and
            (5)   Contact information for additional information on the
application.
         e.   The applicant must provide an affidavit of mailing to the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Published Notice:
         a.   When provisions of this chapter require that “published notice”
be provided, the applicant is responsible for publishing notice in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city.
         b.   The notice must be published at least once, at least fifteen (15)
days but not more than thirty (30) days before the hearing.
         c.   Published notices must contain:
            (1)   The date, time and location of any upcoming public hearings
on the matter;
            (2)   The address of the subject property;
            (3)   A description of the nature and purpose of the application;
            (4)   The name and address of the applicant;
            (5)   Contact information for additional information on the
application; and
            (6)   The property index number (“PIN”) or numbers of all the
parcels of real property contained in the affected area.
         d.   The applicant must provide proof of publication to the zoning
administrator.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-2: TEXT AMENDMENTS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1735.png]
 
   A.   Authority To File: Amendments to the text of this title may be proposed
by the city council or plan commission.
   B.   Public Hearing: The plan commission must hold a public hearing on each
text amendment. Published notice must be provided according to the requirements
of subsection
10-11-1F2 of this chapter.
   C.   Plan Commission Recommendation: The plan commission must review all
proposed text amendments in a public hearing. Following the close of the public
hearing, the plan commission must recommend that the city council approve the
proposed amendment, approve the proposed amendment with modifications or
disapprove the proposed amendment. The plan commission is also authorized to
forward the amendment to city council with no recommendation. The plan
commission’s recommendation will be made by simple majority vote of the quorum
present.
   D.   City Council Action: After due consideration of the plan commission’s
recommendation, the city council must take action on the proposed text
amendment. The city council may approve the plan commission’s recommendation by
simple majority vote. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council’s full
membership is required to override the plan commission’s recommendation.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-3: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1737.png]
 
   A.   Authority To File: Zoning map amendments (rezonings) may be proposed by
the city council, plan commission or the owner of the property proposed to be
changed.
   B.   Filing:
      1.   Applications for zoning map amendments must be filed with the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Applications for all zoning map amendments must also be submitted to
the Bureau County soil and water conservation district for an opinion on the
application. The soil and water conservation district must submit a written
opinion to the zoning administrator within thirty (30) days of receiving the
application.
   C.   Contents Of Application: The following information must be included
with all applications for zoning map amendments:
      1.   A description of the lot or lots to be rezoned;
      2.   Reasons in support of the proposed zoning map amendment,
specifically addressing the review and approval criteria of subsection E1 of
this section;
      3.   A plot plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet
(1"=100'), showing:
         a.   The area proposed to be rezoned;
         b.   The subject area’s location and dimensions; and
         c.   The location, zoning and existing use of all properties within
two hundred feet (200').
      4.   Names and mailing addresses of owners of the subject property and
all properties within two hundred feet (200') of the area to be rezoned; and
      5.   Any additional information required by the plan commission or city
council.
   D.   Public Hearing: The plan commission must hold a public hearing on each
zoning map amendment application. Written notice and published notice must be
provided according to the requirements of subsections
10-11-1F1 and F2 of this chapter; with the exception, that when the plan
commission or city council initiates a zoning map amendment that will affect
multiple property owners and/or the entire city, only published notice is
required in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-2.
   E.   Plan Commission Recommendation:
      1.   The plan commission must review all proposed zoning map amendments
in a public hearing. Following the close of the public hearing, the plan
commission must recommend that the city council approve the proposed zoning map
amendment, approve the proposed amendment with modifications or disapprove the
proposed amendment. The plan commission is also authorized to forward the
amendment to city council with no recommendation. The plan commission’s
recommendation will be made by simple majority vote of the quorum present.
      2.   The plan commission may recommend rezoning to an alternative zoning
district (i.e., different from that requested by the applicant); provided, that
the alternative district is no more intensive than the district requested by
the applicant.
   F.   City Council Action: After due consideration of the plan commission’s
recommendation, the city council must take action on the proposed zoning map
amendment. The city council may approve the plan commission’s recommendation by
simple majority vote. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council’s full
membership is required to override the plan commission’s recommendation. A two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the city council’s full membership is also required to
approve a zoning map amendment in the case of a valid written protest. A valid
written protest is one that is signed and acknowledged by:
      1.   The property owners of twenty percent (20%) of the land proposed to
be rezoned; or
      2.   The property owners of land immediately touching, or immediately
across a street, alley or public way from at least twenty percent (20%) of the
perimeter of the land to be rezoned.
   G.   Review And Approval Criteria: In making their recommendations and
decisions, the plan commission and city council must consider the following:
      1.   The existing uses of properties near the subject property;
      2.   The existing zoning classifications of properties near the subject
property;
      3.   Whether the subject property is suitable for the uses permitted
under the existing and proposed zoning districts;
      4.   The trend of development near the subject property, including
changes that have taken place in the area since the subject property was placed
in its current zoning district;
      5.   Whether the proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the
comprehensive plan; and
      6.   Whether the proposed zoning map amendment is in the public interest
and is not solely in the interests of the applicant.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-4: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses require individual review by the plan commission and city council
to ensure conformance with the intent of the comprehensive plan and to assess
whether the proposed use is compatible with surrounding uses. The review and
approval procedures are described in sections
10-11-5 and
10-11-6 of this chapter. Special uses fit into two (2) basic categories:
   A.   Special Uses: Single uses or single aspects of permitted uses
specifically identified in this title as requiring individual review under the
special use procedure of section
10-11-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Planned Developments: Complex projects designed to take maximum
advantage of unique site characteristics and use original design concepts are
submitted for review under the planned development procedure of section
10-11-6 of this chapter.
      1.   Purpose: The planned development regulations are intended to:
         a.   Encourage better development within the city by providing more
flexibility in the application of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Allow smaller lots when permanent common open space is provided;
         c.   Allow more than one principal structure on a lot;
         d.   Allow development where lots do not abut a dedicated and improved
street;
         e.   Permit diversity in the location of structures; and
         f.   Shorten the total time involved in the rezoning of property and
subdivision of land.
      2.   Types Of Planned Developments: The following are specific types and
purposes of planned developments:
         a.   Residential Planned Developments: Residential planned
developments are intended to offer recreational opportunities close to home;
enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by the conservation of streams and
local spots of natural beauty; add to the sense of spaciousness through the
preservation of natural green spaces; counteract the effects of urban monotony
and congestion in the streets; encourage cooperative relationships between
neighbors and participation by all age groups in the use and care of local open
space tracts in new residential subdivisions; and promote harmonious
architecture between adjacent dwellings or in sympathy with the natural
characteristics of the site.
         b.   Shopping Center Planned Developments: Shopping center planned
developments are intended to promote the cooperative development of shopping
centers each with adequate off street parking; control access points on
arterial and collector streets; separate pedestrian and automobile traffic; aid
in stabilizing property values; develop shopping centers of size and location
compatible with the market potential; buffer adjacent residential areas with
landscaped green spaces; and encourage harmonious architecture between homes
and commercial structures.
         c.   Manufacturing Planned Development: Manufacturing planned
developments are intended to promote the establishment of planned industrial
areas; permit groups of industrial buildings with integrated design and a
coordinated physical plan; encourage recreational facilities within industrial
areas; and buffer adjacent residential areas with landscaped green areas.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-5: SPECIAL USE PROCEDURE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1739.png]
 
   A.   Filing: Applications for special use permits must be filed with the
zoning administrator.
   B.   Public Hearing: The plan commission must hold a public hearing on the
special use permit application. Written notice and published notice must be
provided according to the requirements of subsections
10-11-1F1 and F2 of this chapter.
   C.   Plan Commission Recommendation: The plan commission must recommend
approval, approval with modifications or disapproval of the application. The
plan commission is also authorized to forward the application to city council
with no recommendation.
   D.   City Council Action: After due consideration of the plan commission’s
recommendation, the city council must take action on the proposed special use.
If the city council approves the special use or approves the special use with
modifications, the city council must issue written authorization to the zoning
administrator to issue a building permit. This authorization must remain on
permanent file with the application. The city council may attach special
conditions to the approval to ensure conformance with the intent of the
comprehensive plan.
   E.   Review And Approval Criteria: In making their recommendations and
decisions, the plan commission and city council must consider whether the
following are true of the proposed use:
      1.   Complies with the applicable standards of this title;
      2.   Is compatible with the character of the surrounding area in terms of
site planning, scale and design;
      3.   Is compatible with the character of the surrounding area in terms of
operating characteristics such as hours of operation, outdoor lighting, noise
and traffic generation; and
      4.   Is in the interest of public convenience and will not have a
significant adverse impact on the general welfare of the neighborhood or area.
   F.   Conditions Of Approval: When the anticipated impacts of a special use
are determined to have the potential for adverse impacts on surrounding
property, the special use must be denied or conditions must be placed on the
approval to ensure that any adverse impacts will be mitigated. The plan
commission may impose such conditions upon the site planning, design, location
and operation of a special use.
   G.   Lapse Of Approval:
      1.   Approval granted by the plan commission of a special use application
is valid for twelve (12) months from the date of approval unless a building
permit is obtained or the use is commenced. If a building permit is not
obtained or the use is not commenced within that time, the approval will lapse
and become null and void.
      2.   The plan commission may, at its discretion and upon adequate showing
of good cause, extend the period of validity of special use approval for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months. The plan commission must receive a
written request from the applicant prior to the expiration of the special use
approval stating the reasons for the proposed extension.
      3.   If a special use is discontinued for a period of six (6) months or
longer, the special use will be considered abandoned and become null and void.
Any reinstatement of the special use will require special use approval
according to the procedures of this section.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-6: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1741.png]
 
   A.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to the filing of a preliminary plan,
the developer may submit to the plan commission or city council a generalized
conceptual plan for the proposed development as a means of soliciting informal
input.
   B.   Preliminary Plan Filing: Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plan must
be submitted to the zoning administrator at least ten (10) days prior to the
meeting of the plan commission at which it is to be considered.
   C.   Preliminary Plan Contents: The preliminary plan must include:
      1.   A preliminary subdivision plat and legal description, meeting the
requirements of this title with any requested or granted variances so noted;
      2.   A site plan indicating the arrangement and tentative location of
buildings, uses permitted, land to be preserved as permanent common open space,
parking and loading spaces, and other special features of the development plan;
      3.   A draft of the proposed protective covenants whereby the owner
proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development;
and
      4.   A draft of the proposed incorporation agreement and bylaws including
coverage by liability insurance and maintenance of recreational and other
common facilities with the city as a participant for:
         a.   A homeowners’ association in a residential planned development;
         b.   A merchants’ association in a shopping center planned
development; or
         c.   An industrial association in a manufacturing planned development.
      5.   Data on the market potential necessary to support the location of
site and the size of business uses in a shopping center planned development.
   D.   Public Hearing: The plan commission must hold a public hearing on the
planned development application. Written notice and published notice must be
provided according to the requirements of subsections
10-11-1F1 and F2 of this chapter.
   E.   Plan Commission Recommendation: The plan commission must review the
preliminary plan at a public hearing. Following the close of the public
hearing, the plan commission must recommend that the city council approve the
proposed planned development, approve the planned development with
modifications, or disapprove the planned development. The plan commission is
also authorized to forward the planned development to the city council with no
recommendation. The plan commission’s recommendation will be made by simple
majority vote of the quorum present.
   F.   City Council Action: After due consideration of the plan commission’s
recommendation and within thirty (30) days of receipt of the preliminary plan
and report of the plan commission, the city council must take action on the
proposed preliminary plan.
   G.   Final Plan Filing:
      1.   The final plan must conform substantially to the preliminary plan as
approved.
      2.   If desired by the developer, the final plan may constitute only a
portion of the approved preliminary plan that he or she proposes to record and
develop at the time; provided, that the portion conforms to all requirements of
this title.
   H.   Final Plan Contents: The final plan must include:
      1.   The final subdivision plat;
      2.   The location and dimensions of the building lots, common permanent
open space, existing permanent buildings, easements, rights of way, legal
description and uses permitted in specific parts of the planned development;
      3.   Protective covenants; and
      4.   An engineer’s seal certifying that the plans are drawn in compliance
with city ordinances.
   I.   Final Plan Approval:
      1.   After the final plan is filed, the plan commission must forward its
findings and recommendations to the city council within forty five (45) days.
      2.   The city council must take action on the final plan within forty
five (45) days of receipt of the final plan and report of the plan commission
and notify the plan commission and developer of its decision.
   J.   Review And Approval Criteria: The plan commission, in making its
findings and recommendations, and the city council, in its authorization of a
planned development, must establish that the proposed planned development:
      1.   Is consistent with the comprehensive plan; and
      2.   Complies with the purpose and all applicable regulations and
conditions of this title.
   K.   Permanent Common Open Space:
      1.   No plan for a planned development may be approved unless the plan
provides for permanent common open space.
      2.   For the purposes of this subsection, permanent common open space
includes all areas other than dedicated public streets, parking areas, areas
occupied by principal and accessory structures or buildings and stormwater
management facilities unless designed in a natural manner with native
vegetation with trails or other passive recreational amenities; schools and
recreation buildings will be considered open space.
      3.   Permanent common open space must be provided in the following
amounts:
         a.   Forty percent (40%) of the total area in a single-family
residential planned development;
         b.   Fifty percent (50%) of the total area in a multi-family
residential planned development; and
         c.   Five percent (5%) in a shopping center or manufacturing planned
development.
   L.   Recording Of Final Plan: Upon approval of the city council, the
applicant must record the subdivision plat (when required), protective
covenants and easements with the Bureau County recorder of deeds or registrar
of titles. Proof of recordation must be provided to the zoning administrator
prior to the issuance of building permits.
   M.   Effect Of Approval: All final plans filed will:
      1.   Be binding upon the applicants, their successors and assigns;
      2.   Control the issuance and validity of all building permits; and
      3.   Limit the construction, location, use and operation of all land,
land improvements and structures to be located on such plans.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-7: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1743.png]
 
   A.   Applicability: No building permit may be issued until required site
plan approval has been granted. Site plan review is required for new
construction and exterior additions for the following:
      1.   Attached single-family development and multi-family development with
three (3) or more units; and
      2.   Nonresidential development.
   B.   Filing:
      1.   A professionally designed site plan shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator showing the location, boundaries, dimensions, elevations, uses
and size of the following:
         a.   The subject site;
         b.   Existing and proposed structures;
         c.   Existing and proposed easements, streets and other public ways;
         d.   Off street parking, loading areas and driveways;
         e.   Existing highway access restrictions;
         f.   Proposed utilities;
         g.   Existing and proposed front, side and rear yards;
         h.   Proposed stormwater management;
         i.   Proposed landscaping;
         j.   The location, elevation and use of any abutting lands and their
structures within forty feet (40') of the subject site; and
         k.   Any additional information required by the development review
committee.
   C.   Scope: The scope of site plan review includes review of the location of
principal and accessory structures, infrastructure, open space, landscaping,
exterior lighting, traffic and circulation (both vehicular and pedestrian),
number of parking spaces and design of parking lots. In reviewing site plans,
the design review committee must evaluate the relationship of the site plan to
adopted land use policies and the goals and objectives of the comprehensive
plan. In addition, the committee will evaluate the following characteristics:
      1.   The arrangement of the structures and buildings on the site with
respect to how well it:
         a.   Allows for the efficient use of the land;
         b.   Is compatible with development on adjacent property;
         c.   Minimizes potential impacts on existing or planned municipal
services, utilities and infrastructure;
         d.   Protects the public health, safety and general welfare; and
         e.   Conforms to the requirements of this title and other applicable
regulations.
      2.   The arrangement of open space or natural features on the site with
respect to how well it:
         a.   Creates a desirable and functional environment for patrons,
pedestrians and occupants;
         b.   Preserves unique natural resources;
         c.   Provides adequate measures to preserve existing healthy, mature
trees and woodlands;
         d.   Designs drainage facilities to promote the use and preservation
of natural watercourses and patterns of drainage; and
         e.   Avoids unnecessary or unreasonable alterations to existing
topography.
      3.   Circulation systems with respect to how well they:
         a.   Provide adequate and safe access to the site;
         b.   Minimize potentially dangerous traffic movements;
         c.   Separate pedestrian and auto circulation; and
         d.   Minimize curb cuts.
      4.   Parking lots or garages with respect to how well they:
         a.   Are located, designed and screened to minimize adverse visual
impacts to adjacent properties;
         b.   Promote logical and safe parking and internal circulation;
         c.   Provide perimeter parking lot screening and internal landscaped
islands;
         d.   Include site illumination that has been designed, located and
installed to minimize adverse impacts to adjacent properties.
      5.   Landscaping design with respect to how well it:
         a.   Creates a logical transition to adjoining lots and developments;
         b.   Screens incompatible uses;
         c.   Minimizes the visual impact of the development to adjacent sites
and roadways;
         d.   Utilizes native plant materials selected to withstand the
microclimate of the city and individual site microclimates.
   D.   Development Review Committee Review: The site plan will be reviewed by
the development review committee. When the development review committee
approves the site plan, a building permit may be issued; provided, that the
requirements of all other applicable codes and ordinances are satisfied. If the
development review committee does not approve the site plan, the applicant may
revise it and submit it for further review in accordance with this section.
   E.   Denial And Appeals:
      1.   If the development review committee does not approve the site plan,
the applicant may appeal the decision to the plan commission. The applicant’s
failure to submit a revised site plan or to file an appeal will be considered a
withdrawal of the application for a building permit.
      2.   If the applicant chooses to appeal, the written notice of appeal
must be filed with the zoning administrator no later than fifteen (15) days
after the date of the denial. The plan commission must act on the appeal no
later than thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the written appeal.
The plan commission will vote to sustain or deny the appeal. A majority vote is
required to sustain the appeal. If the plan commission sustains the appeal, the
building permit may be issued; provided, that the requirements of all other
applicable codes and ordinances are satisfied.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-8: MULTI-FAMILY DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   Applicability: All multi-family developments containing three (3) or
more dwelling units are subject to design review.
   B.   Filing: Applications for multi-family design review must be filed with
the zoning administrator.
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Preliminary and final plats are required according to the planned
development procedure for developments with more than one building or require a
new street.
      2.   For new single building development in areas already subdivided and
served with streets and all required improvements, the site plan review process
(section 10-11-7 of this chapter) shall be followed.
      3.   Site design and flexibility and originality are encouraged within
the limitations of the use and dimensional standards cited for this district.
Preliminary and final plat must conform to the standards for this district and
comply with the comprehensive plan.
      4.   The recorded final plat will provide continuing control over the
completed development as specified in the planned development procedure.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-9: VARIATIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1745.png]
 
   A.   Applicability; Authorized Variations: Variations from the use
regulations of this title are prohibited. This section is intended to allow
variations from the dimensional standards of this title, such as setbacks or
building height; parking requirements; or landscape requirements.
   B.   Filing: Applications for variations must be filed with the board of
zoning appeals.
   C.   Public Hearing: The board of zoning appeals must hold a public hearing
on the proposed variation. Written and published notice must be provided
according to the requirements of subsections
10-11-1F1 and F2 of this chapter.
   D.   Approval Criteria And Review Factors:
      1.   Evidence Of Practical Difficulties Or Particular Hardships: In order
to approve a variation, the board of zoning appeals must find evidence that
practical difficulties or particular hardships exist. The board must find
evidence of all of the following:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only according to the requirements of this title;
         b.   The practical difficulties or particular hardships are due to
unique circumstances and are not generally applicable to similarly situated
property; and
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood or area.
      2.   Other Review Factors: In determining whether practical difficulties
or particular hardships exist, the board of zoning appeals must also consider
whether the evidence submitted supports the following:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the
regulations were strictly enforced;
         b.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         c.   The alleged practical difficulty or particular hardship has not
been created by any person presently having an interest in the property;
         d.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or harmful to other property or improvements in the neighborhood
or area; and
         e.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   E.   Conditions Of Approval: The board of zoning appeals may impose
conditions and restrictions upon the subject property that are necessary to
avoid or minimize any potentially harmful effects on other property in the
neighborhood, and to carry out the purpose and intent of this title, as stated
in section
10-1-6 of this title.
   F.   Variations From Flood Protection Standards: Upon application and after
fifteen (15) days’ notice of a public hearing, the city council may grant a
variance of the standards in chapter 8, “Flood Protection Standards”, of this
title, subject to compliance with the provisions of 44 C.F.R. 60.6 of the rules
and regulations of the national flood insurance program and such other
conditions as the city council deems necessary to comply with the intent of
this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-10: WRITTEN INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Application Filing: Applications for written interpretations must be
submitted to the zoning administrator.
   B.   Zoning Administrator’s Review And Decision: Following receipt of a
complete application for a written interpretation, the zoning administrator
must:
      1.   Review and evaluate the application for compliance with this title
and consistency with the comprehensive plan and any other relevant documents;
      2.   Consult with other staff, as necessary; and
      3.   Render a written interpretation.
   C.   Form: The interpretation must be provided to the applicant in writing
and be filed in the official record of interpretations.
   D.   Official Record Of Interpretations: An official record of
interpretations must be kept on file in the zoning administrator’s office. The
record of interpretations must be available for public inspection in the zoning
administrator’s office during normal business hours.
   E.   Appeals: Appeals of the zoning administrator’s written interpretation
may be taken to the board of zoning appeals in accordance with appeal
procedures of section
10-11-11 of this chapter. If the appeal results in a change of interpretation,
the new interpretation must be filed in the official record of interpretations.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-11: APPEALS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1747.png]
 
   A.   Authority To File: Appeals from the decisions of the zoning
administrator concerning the interpretation, administration or enforcement of
this title may be made by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department,
board or bureau of the city.
   B.   Filing: A notice of appeal, specifying the grounds for appeal, must be
filed with the zoning administrator and with the board of zoning appeals within
forty five (45) days of the action being appealed.
   C.   Contents Of Application: The following must be included with all
appeals:
      1.   The name and address of the appellant or applicant and all abutting
and opposite property owners of record;
      2.   A plat of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor showing the
location, boundaries, dimensions, elevations, uses and size of the following:
         a.   The subject site;
         b.   Existing and proposed structures;
         c.   Existing and proposed easements, streets and other public ways;
         d.   Off street parking, loading areas and driveways;
         e.   Existing highway access restrictions;
         f.   Existing and proposed front, side and rear yards; and
         g.   The location, elevation, and use of any abutting lands and their
structures within forty feet (40') of the subject site.
      3.   Additional information required by the board of zoning appeals.
   D.   Public Hearing: The board of zoning appeals must hold a public hearing
on the appeal. Written notice and published notice must be provided according
to the requirements of subsections
10-11-1F1 and F2 of this chapter. The board must also notify the appellant and
the zoning administrator of the public hearing.
   E.   Board Of Zoning Appeals Action: Following the public hearing, the board
of zoning appeals must take final action on the appeal.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-12: SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND PLATTING, GENERALLY:
   A.   Geographic Jurisdiction: No land within the city or any unincorporated
area that is located entirely or in part within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles
of the city limits may be subdivided except in conformity with this chapter.
   B.   Plat Requirements: No lots may be sold or offered for sale until the
approved final plat is recorded in accordance with subsection
10-11-15F of this chapter.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-13: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1749.png]
 
   A.   Preapplication Procedure:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to the filing of an application for
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to the plan
commission plans and data as specified in this section. This step does not
require formal application, fee or filing of the plat. The purpose of the
preapplication conference is to give the subdivider an opportunity to receive
the advice and assistance of the plan commission and to consult early and
informally with the plan commission staff before preparation of the preliminary
plat and before a formal application for its approval, in order to save time
and money and to make the most of his or her opportunities.
      2.   Recommended Preapplication Plans And Data:
         a.   The general subdivision information should describe or outline
the existing conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary
to supplement the drawing listed below. This information may include data on
existing covenants; land characteristics; available community facilities and
utilities; and information describing the subdivision proposal such as number
of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, price range, business areas,
school, playground, park areas, other public areas, proposed protective
covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
         b.   The sketch plan, on topographic survey, should show in simple
sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation
to existing conditions. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil sketch made
directly on a print of the topographic survey. The sketch plan should include
the existing topographic data listed in subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   Notification: Within thirty (30) days, the plan commission must
inform the subdivider whether or not the plans and data as submitted or as
modified meet the objectives of this title. When the plan commission finds the
plans and data do not meet the objectives of this title, it must express in
writing to the subdivider its reasons for its findings.
   B.   Filing: The subdivider must prepare a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in this
chapter. Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material
specified must be submitted to the secretary of the plan commission with a
written application for conditional approval.
   C.   Preliminary Plat Contents:
      1.   Existing Conditions: Topographic data required as a basis for the
preliminary plat must include existing conditions as follows except when
otherwise specified by the plan commission:
         a.   Boundary lines: Bearings and distances.
         b.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
         c.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: Name and right of way width
and elevation of surfacing; and legally established centerline elevations;
walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
         d.   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and
streetlights; of water mains and sewers which are not on or adjacent to the
tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and size of nearest ones,
showing invert elevation of sewers.
         e.   Ground elevations on the tract, based on the city datum plane:
For land that slopes less than one-half percent (1/2%) show not less than one
foot (1') contours, show spot elevations at all breaks in grade, along all
drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more than one hundred
feet (100') apart in all directions, and for land that slopes more than two
percent (2%) show not less than two foot (2') contours.
         f.   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the plan
commission: Location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil,
rock and groundwater conditions; depth to groundwater unless test pits are dry
at a depth of five feet (5'); location and results of soil percolation tests if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
         g.   Other conditions on the tract: Watercourses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1') or more in
diameter, houses, barns, shacks and other significant features.
         h.   Other conditions on adjacent land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date, and number, and show approximate percent built up, typical lot
size and dwelling type.
         i.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
         j.   Proposed public improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
         k.   Key plan showing location of the tract.
         l.   Title and certificates: Present tract designation according to
official records in the offices of the county recorder; title under which
proposed subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners,
notation stating acreage, scale, and north arrow.
      2.   Preliminary Plat Data: The preliminary plat must be drawn to a scale
of one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100'). It must show all existing
conditions required by this section and must show all proposals including the
following:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   Its location by section, township and range and as forming a part
of some larger tract or parcel of land referred to in the indexes of the
records of the county clerk.
         c.   Sufficient information to accurately locate the plat. (Reference
to existing streets, plats, etc., may be used. If there are none within a
reasonable distance of the proposed subdivision, a vicinity plat on a small
scale should accompany the preliminary plat.)
         d.   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in
the subdivision.
         e.   The names and addresses of the persons to whom the notice of the
hearing should be sent (the subdivider, the designer of the subdivision, and
the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be platted).
         f.   The names, locations, roadway widths, right of way widths,
approximate gradients and other dimensions of streets, alleys, easements, parks
and other open spaces.
         g.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches and industry.
         h.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose indicated. The
areas that are to be maintained by any proposed homeowners’ association must be
identified.
         i.   Location and size of utilities.
         j.   Block numbers and layout; numbers, dimensions and area of lots.
         k.   Setbacks, showing dimensions.
         l.   North arrow, scale and date of preparation.
      3.   Covenants: A draft of protective covenants (if any), by which the
subdivider proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed
development must be included. Upon approval, these would be enforced by a
homeowners’ association, as defined by this title.
   D.   Plan Commission Conditional Approval:
      1.   The plan commission must review the preliminary plat for compliance
with the requirements of chapter 9 of this title. If the plan commission
determines that the plat complies with all requirements of this title, the plan
commission must recommend approval. If the plat does not comply, the plan
commission must recommend disapproval of the preliminary plat and must state
the reasons for disapproval. The plan commission must make its recommendations
within thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the plan commission conditionally approves the preliminary plat,
it must state the conditions of the approval; if it disapproves, it must state
the reasons for disapproval.
      3.   The action of the plan commission will be noted on three (3) copies
of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions applied. One
copy must be returned to the subdivider, one must be forwarded with a report to
the city council, and the other must be retained by the plan commission.
   E.   City Council Action: The city council must conditionally approve or
deny the preliminary plat upon motion and a majority vote.
   F.   Effect Of Conditional Approval: Conditional approval of a preliminary
plat does not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather it will be deemed
an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a
guide to the preparation of the final plat.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-14: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
   A.   Before submitting the final plat, the subdivider must submit three (3)
copies of the final plans and specifications for public improvements to the
plan commission. The following information, at a minimum, must be included:
      1.   Detailed drawings of a grading plan, street improvements plan,
sanitary sewer improvements plan and water system improvement plan;
      2.   Plans and profiles drawn at a scale not exceed one inch equals one
hundred feet (1"=100') horizontally and one inch equals ten feet (1"=10')
vertically, indicating additional horizontal and vertical location of streets,
sewers and the existing grade; and
      3.   Detailed material and construction specifications concerning the
work to be performed including general conditions to the contract acceptable by
the city.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
   B.   Upon receipt of these final plans, the plan commission must refer them
to the engineer for the city for his or her comments and corrections. The
engineer for the city must review these plans for compliance with the
requirements of the city, and must return them with his or her recommendations
to the plan commission. The engineer for the city may, at his or her
discretion, confer with the developer’s engineer concerning correction to the
final plans prior his or her final recommendations. All final plans must be
submitted on twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24"x36") sheets and must bear
the signature and seal of the Illinois registered professional engineer under
whose direction they were prepared.
   C.   Upon the completion of all improvements within the subdivision the
subdivider must call for a final inspection by the for the engineer for the
city.
   D.   Prior to final approval of improvements, the subdivider must submit
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24"x36") reproducible plans showing the
improvements as actually built.
   E.   The engineer for the city will inspect the improvements within the
subdivision for compliance with the certified plans and specifications and the
design standards and specifications of this title.
   F.   When the engineer for the city is satisfied that the required
improvements within the subdivision comply with the approved plans and this
title, the engineer for the city will recommend in writing to the city council
that the improvements be accepted by the city.
   G.   No building permit will be issued until final inspection is approved in
writing by the engineer for the city.
   H.   When the engineer for the city advises the plan commission chair, the
plan commission secretary, the city clerk and the mayor that the improvements
have been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications; that
all improvements have been installed or performance guarantees have been posted
in accordance with section
10-9-3 of this title; and that all necessary data are shown on the final plat
as required, then the certificate of approval of final plat will be properly
endorsed by the plan commission chair and secretary, the mayor and the city
clerk and recorded by the developer.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
10-11-15: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Relation To Preliminary Plat And Ordinance: The final plat must conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and, if desired by the
subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which he or she proposes to record and develop at the time; provided,
however, that the portion conforms to all requirements of this title.
   B.   Submission To Plan Commission: Preliminary plat approval will lapse
unless four (4) copies of the final plat and other required exhibits are
prepared as specified in subsection C of this section and are submitted to the
plan commission within twelve (12) months from the date of preliminary plat
approval. Upon request of the applicant, the plan commission may grant one six
(6) month extension if the request is made prior to the expiration of the
preliminary plat approval.
   C.   Final Plat Contents: The final plat must be drawn in ink on tracing
cloth or other permanent plastic base on sheets not to exceed thirty six inches
(36") wide by forty eight inches (48") long and must be at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1"=100'). Where necessary, the plat may be on several
sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For large
subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for approval progressively in
contiguous sections satisfactory to the plan commission. The final plat must
show the following:
      1.   Name of the subdivision;
      2.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description;
      3.   Scale one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100') (shown
graphically);
      4.   Date and north arrow;
      5.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
linear dimensions;
      6.   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalks; streets that are
obviously in alignment with others already existing and named must bear the
names of the existing streets;
      7.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments (not less than 3), which must be accurately described in the
plat;
      8.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      9.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs;
      10.   Location, dimensions and purpose for all easements;
      11.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in
feet and hundredths;
      12.   Location and description of permanent monuments or benchmarks;
      13.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners. Areas that are to be maintained by any proposed homeowners’ association
must be clearly identified with that responsibility expressly stated on the
plat;
      14.   Setbacks, accurately shown by dimension;
      15.   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the plan
commission must be lettered on the final plat or attached thereto;
      16.   A summary on its face of all restrictions applicable to any part of
such subdivision relating to building restrictions, use restrictions, setbacks
or otherwise; and
      17.   A blank certificate of approval as set out in this section.
   D.   Accompanying Documents: The following documents must accompany the
final plat:
      1.   Certification by a registered surveyor in the form set out in
section
10-11-16 of this chapter;
      2.   Notarized certifications, by owner or owners, and by mortgagor or
lienholder of record, acknowledging the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas;
      3.   An agreement executed by the owner and subdivider to make and
install the improvements provided for in this title according to the plans and
specifications accompanying the final plat;
      4.   A notice from the city council stating that the following related to
installation of required public improvements have been filed with and approved
by the council:
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
         a.   A certificate by the engineer for the city that all improvements
and installations to the subdivision required for its approval have been made
or installed in accordance with the specifications; or that a performance
guarantee such as a surety bond, letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or
another surety instrument acceptable to the city council, in accordance with
section
10-9-3 of this title, has been provided that will:
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
            (1)   Be in an amount and form determined by the city council to be
sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with
this title;
            (2)   Be with surety by a company or financial institution entered
and licensed to do business in the state of Illinois that guarantees to the
city availability of an amount determined by the city council to be sufficient
to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this title;
            (3)   In such form and substance as to be enforceable by the city
against such institution for the purpose of completing the improvements in the
event of default by the developer; and
            (4)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations;
            (5)   Be held by the city until the final completion of all of the
improvements to be constructed;
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
            (6)   Be canceled or refunded to the developer upon certification,
in writing, of the engineer for the city that the improvements have been
completed in full, and have been constructed according to the approved plans
and specifications and all of the requirements of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
         b.   Evidence of a deposit of a maintenance bond, certificate of
deposit or other surety instrument acceptable to the city council equal to
fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of improvements to be held by the
city for a period of eighteen (18) months after the final completion of the
work as a guarantee against any defect in the material or workmanship furnished
in connection with such improvement latent in character and not discernible at
the time of the final approval of such improvement, and to guarantee against
any damage to such improvements by reason of settling of the ground, base or
foundation. After the termination of the eighteen (18) month period, the
deposit will be refunded to the depositor, if no defects have developed, or if
defects have developed, then the balance of such deposit after reimbursement of
the city for any amounts expended by it in the curing of defects.
      5.   A certificate from the proper collector hereof that he or she finds
no delinquent general taxes and all special assessments constituting a lien on
the whole or any part of the land to be subdivided have been paid.
      6.   A digital copy of the final plat in PDF form and CAD and/or
Shapefile with coordinate data shall be submitted to the zoning administrator.
   E.   Approval; Effect:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after application for approval of the final
plat, the plan commission must approve or disapprove it. The plan commission
must set forth its approval or its disapproval and its reasons for disapproval
on its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
      2.   Upon approval of the final plat by the plan commission, it must be
submitted to the city council for action. Council approval will be by motion
and majority vote and so recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      3.   Final plat approval will lapse unless all required improvements have
been installed and inspected by the engineer for the city or performance
guarantees approved in accordance with this section and section
10-9-3 of this title have been provided, and the plat has been recorded with
the county recorder of deeds within eighteen (18) months of final plat
approval. Upon request of the applicant, the plan commission may grant one six
(6) month extension if the request is made prior to the expiration of the final
plat approval. Any request for extension of the time period for installation of
required public improvements may only be approved by the city council in
accordance with section
10-9-3 of this title.
   F.   Certification And Recording:
      1.   Upon certification, in writing, by the engineer for the city, that
the improvements have been constructed in accordance with the approved
construction plans and specifications, that all necessary data are shown on the
final plat as required by this title, or a performance guarantee has been
posted in accordance with this section to ensure installation of all public
improvements, the plan commission and the city council will endorse such plat
by their appropriate officers and the corporate seal of the city affixed
thereto.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   When the final plat has been so certified, the developer must record
the plat with the county recorder of deeds prior to lapse of final plat
approval, as described in subsection E of this section. If not recorded prior
to the lapse of final plat approval, the approval and certification will be
null and void. Immediately after recording the original, a duly certified copy
of the recorded plat must be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-16: CERTIFICATES FOR RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   The certificate on the final plat must be in the following form with
the signatures of the president of the county commissioners and the county
clerk to be necessary where the plat covers land in the unincorporated one and
one-half (1-1/2) mile fringe area. Other certificates, affidavits, endorsements
or dedications may be required by the plan commission or city council.
Under the authority provided by Chapter 65, Illinois Compiled Statutes, enacted
by the State Legislature of the State of Illinois and an ordinance adopted by
the City Council of the City of Princeton, Illinois, this plat was given
approval by the City of Princeton and MUST BE RECORDED WITHIN FOUR MONTHS OF
THE DATE OF APPROVAL BY THE CITY COUNCIL; OTHERWISE IT IS NULL AND VOID.
Approved by the Plan Commission at a meeting held
                               
Chair                                       
Secretary                                       
Approved by the City Council at a meeting held                                
Mayor                                          
City Clerk                                      
Approved by the Engineer for the city:                                   
Approved by the County Board of Commissioners of Bureau County, Illinois, at a
meeting held                                                            
President                                                    
County Clerk                                              
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Each final plat submitted to the city for approval must carry a
certificate signed by an Illinois registered land surveyor in substantially the
following form:
I, (Name), hereby certify that I am an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor in
compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois and that this plat correctly
represents a survey completed by me on (Date); that all monuments shown thereon
actually exist, and material is accurately shown.
SEAL                               
Signature                                                  
Illinois Land Surveyor No.                          
   C.   Each final plat submitted to the city for approval must carry a deed of
dedication in substantially the following form:
We, the undersigned, (Name), owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby lay off, plat, and subdivide said real estate in accordance
with the within plat. This subdivision will be known and designated as (Name).
All streets and alleys and public open spaces shown, and not heretofore
dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public. Setbacks are hereby established
as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the
streets, there will be erected or maintained no building or structure. There
are strips of ground, (Number) feet in width, as shown on this plat and marked
“Easement” reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation of
water and sewer mains, ducts, lines, and wires, subject at all times to the
proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or other
structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners
of lots in this subdivision will take their titles subject to the rights of the
public utilities, and to the rights of the owners of other lots in this
subdivision. (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private
restrictions, would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or the
recommendation of the plan commission or city council; important provisions are
those specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of
residential use, the minimum habitable floor area).
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and will be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1, 20
(twenty five year period is suggested); at which time, said covenants (or
restrictions) will be automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10)
years unless indicated otherwise by negative vote of a majority of the then
owners of the building sites covered by these covenants (or restrictions) in
whole or in part, which said vote will be evidenced by a petition in writing
signed by the owners and duly recorded. Invalidation of any one of the
foregoing covenants (or restrictions) by judgment or court order will in no way
affect any of the other various covenants or restrictions, which will remain in
full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation thereof, is hereby dedicated to the public
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.
Witness our Hands and Seals this          day of         
State of Illinois
County of         
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the county and state,
personally appeared (Name), (Name), (Name), and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my Hand and Notarial Seal this          day of         .
Notary Public
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-17: VARIATIONS FROM SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When the subdivider can show that a provision of this title, if
strictly adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship, and when, in the opinion
of the plan commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar
to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such
provisions, the plan commission may recommend a variance or modification to the
city council. The subdivider must apply in writing for such variance or
modification of the action. Any variance or modification thus authorized must
be attached to and made a part of the final plat.
   B.   In any instance where the city has granted approval of a preliminary
plat of subdivision prior to the effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this title and where the subdivision design or subdivision
improvements as shown on such preliminary plat are less restrictive than the
requirements of this title, the subdivider may apply in writing to the city
council for permission to proceed with subdivision as originally planned. The
city council, upon review of the preliminary plat as originally submitted, may
then grant such permission.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-18: MOBILE HOME PARK PERMIT:
   A.   Applicability: A mobile home park permit is required for all new mobile
home parks and additions to existing mobile home parks.
   B.   Filing: Applications for mobile home park permits must be filed with
the zoning administrator.
   C.   Contents Of Application: Applications for mobile home park permits must
include:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, and the present or last
occupation of the applicant at the time of filing of the application;
      2.   Location and legal description of the tract of land, certified on a
plat of a survey by a registered land surveyor, drawn to scale of at least one
inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100');
      3.   The proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection, and any community
buildings;
      4.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and outdoor areas;
      5.   All corners and points of tangency are to be marked by galvanized or
wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen inches (18") in
length and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. The top of the pipe
or bar is to be set level with the established grade of the ground;
      6.   The plot plans of the park drawn to scale including building plans
and specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new or altered buildings and facilities, all showing
compliance with the provisions of this title. The plot plans must be drawn on a
scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100') and must contain the
following:
         a.   The date on which such plot plans were prepared;
         b.   An arrow indicating north;
         c.   All mobile home sites, which must be numbered;
         d.   Complete information regarding storm sewers;
         e.   Stormwater runoff, shown on a separate plat;
         f.   Contour lines at one foot (1') intervals, shown on a separate
plat, using United States geological survey data; and
         g.   Grades of driveways and all ditches, shown on a separate plat.
      7.   A performance bond or other security acceptable to the plan
commission in a sum sufficient to cover a written estimate made by a qualified
engineer or other qualified person of the cost of improvements. Such bond must
be payable to the city of Princeton, and conditioned upon the completion of
such construction in a reasonable time; and
      8.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application.
   D.   Issuance Of Mobile Home Park Permit:
      1.   If the plans conform to the requirements of this title, the zoning
administrator will issue a mobile home park permit.
      2.   If the application for a permit is denied, the zoning administrator
will give the reasons for denial in writing to the applicant. If the objections
can be corrected, the applicant may amend the application and resubmit it for
approval.
      3.   If a mobile home park permit is issued, the zoning administrator
will periodically make inspections during construction to verify compliance.
      4.   No change in any sanitary facilities, water supply, sewer, drainage,
garbage or waste disposal, or any element on the plot plan may be made without
an application for a permit from the zoning administrator. Such a permit does
not relieve the applicant from any other city ordinances or permit
requirements.
      5.   If the mobile home park is completed in compliance with the accepted
application and the applicable fee has been paid, the zoning administrator will
present findings to the city council, who may then issue a mobile home park
license.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-11-19: BUILDING PERMITS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1751.png]
 
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   No building or structure identified by this section may be used,
located, moved, constructed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or otherwise
structurally altered without obtaining a building permit and without complying
with all of the requirements of this title and all other applicable local,
state and federal regulations. Buildings and structures that require a building
permit are as follows:
         a.   New single-family, two-family, multi-family and nonresidential
buildings;
         b.   Building additions and structural alterations;
         c.   Nonresidential change in occupancy;
         d.   Accessory buildings including garages, sheds, gazebos and
greenhouses;
         e.   Porches, decks, fences and carports;
         f.   Driveways;
         g.   Swimming pools (with the exception of temporary inflatable
swimming pools).
      2.   No building permit will be issued for the improvement of any lot in
a subdivision until the plat of subdivision and the plans and specifications
for the public improvements have been approved by the city council.
   B.   Filing: A building permit application must be submitted to the zoning
administrator.
   C.   Contents Of Application: Building permit applications must include the
following, where applicable:
      1.   Names and addresses of the applicant, owner of the site, architect,
professional engineer and contractor;
      2.   Description of the subject site by lot, block and recorded
subdivision;
      3.   Address of the subject site;
      4.   Type of structure;
      5.   Existing and proposed operation or use of the structure or site;
      6.   Number of employees;
      7.   The zoning classification of the subject site;
      8.   A plat of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor showing the
location, boundaries, dimensions, elevations, uses and size of the following:
         a.   The subject site;
         b.   Existing and proposed structures;
         c.   Existing and proposed easements, streets and other public ways;
         d.   Off street parking, loading areas and driveways;
         e.   Existing highway access restrictions;
         f.   Existing and proposed front, side and rear yards; and
         g.   The location, elevation, and use of any abutting lands and their
structures within forty feet (40') of the subject site.
      9.   Single-family attached, multi-family, and nonresidential
construction/alterations valued at over one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) shall require submittal of professionally designed building
plans.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016)
      10.   If municipal sewer service is not available, a proposed sewage
disposal plan approved by the engineer for the city, who must certify in
writing that satisfactory, adequate and safe sewage disposal is possible on the
site as proposed by the plan, and that the plan complies with all applicable
health regulations;
      11.   If municipal water service is not available, a proposed water
supply plan approved by the engineer for the city, who must certify in writing
that an adequate and safe supply of water will be provided.
   D.   Issuance Of Building Permit:
      1.   All applications for building permits for planned unit developments,
multi-family dwellings, or commercial or industrial improvements must be
reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator, engineer for the city and/or
licensed independent engineer or inspector retained by or approved by the city
before the issuance of the building permit.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 2016; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   The zoning administrator will grant or deny the building permit in
writing within thirty (30) days of application.
      3.   After construction is completed, the applicant must obtain a letter
of occupancy in accordance with section
10-11-20 of this chapter prior to occupying the premises.
   E.   Expiration Of Building Permit: The building permit will expire within
six (6) months from the date it was issued unless construction is started and
diligently pursued unto completion. The zoning administrator may renew the
building permit before it expires at the applicant’s request.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
9-1-1 of the city code
10-11-20: LETTER OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Applicability: No building may be occupied or reoccupied (if forced to
be vacated during construction) before a letter of occupancy has been issued by
the city.
   B.   Filing: Upon filing for a building permit, a property owner and/or his
or her authorized agent will be informed that they will be required to provide
a certificate from their contractor(s) that all work has been completed in
accordance with the approved building permits, prior to issuance of a letter of
occupancy by the city.
   C.   Issuance Of Letter Of Occupancy:
      1.   After the completion of the building in accordance with approved
building permits, the applicant must request in writing that the zoning
administrator issue a letter of occupancy.
      2.   The zoning administrator will issue the letter of occupancy to the
property owner, only upon receipt of a certificate or letter signed by the
contractor(s) who conducted the work on the new building. This will serve as
certification to the property owner and the city that the building is in
compliance with applicable building and safety codes, all provisions of this
title; and that the building, including its location and design on the lot, is
consistent with the building permits issued by the city.
      3.   Copies of the contractors’ certification or letter of compliance and
approved letter of occupancy will be kept on file by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 12: NONCONFORMITIES
Section
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Scope
10-12-3: Provisions Of General Applicability
10-12-4: Nonconforming Uses
10-12-5: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
10-12-6: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-12-7: Nonconforming Signs
10-12-8: Other Nonconformities
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this chapter govern uses, structures, lots and other
situations that came into existence lawfully but do not comply with one or more
requirements of this title. These types of situations are said to be
nonconforming. The intent of this chapter is to clarify the effect of such
nonconforming status and avoid their confusion with illegal buildings and uses.
These regulations recognize the interests of landowners in continuing to use
and maintain their properties for uses and activities that were lawfully
established. The regulations also seek to encourage continued maintenance,
rehabilitation and reuse of existing buildings and structures. However, these
regulations also place limitations on nonconformities that have the potential
to adversely affect surrounding properties.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to nonconformities created by the adoption of this title
or subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-3: PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Continuation Permitted: Any nonconformity that lawfully existed on the
date of adoption of this title or that becomes nonconforming upon the adoption
of any amendment to this title may be continued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Illegal Uses, Buildings And Structures: Uses, buildings and structures
that were not lawfully established prior to the adoption of this title will not
become legal by virtue of its enactment. Illegal uses, buildings and structures
must be immediately brought into compliance with all ordinances of the city.
   C.   Determination Of Nonconforming Status: The burden of establishing that
a nonconformity exists will, in all cases, be upon the property owner of the
nonconforming use, building or structure and not upon the city.
   D.   Replacement Value: Replacement value for all structures will be
interpreted as the assessed value of the improvement based on information
obtained from the township assessor unless the applicant provides replacement
value data prepared by a certified appraiser. When assessed value data is not
available and the subject owner has not provided appraisal data, the zoning
administrator is authorized to determine replacement value based on the best
available data.
   E.   Repairs And Maintenance: Incidental repairs and normal maintenance of
nonconforming situations are permitted to maintain a property in sound
condition, unless expressly prohibited by this title or other city ordinances.
Examples of normal maintenance and incidental repairs include installation or
relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions, fixtures, equipment,
wiring, roofing and plumbing. Nothing in this chapter may be construed to
prevent structures from being structurally strengthened or restored to a safe
condition, in accordance with an official order of a public official.
   F.   Safety Regulations: All police power regulations enacted to promote the
public health, safety and welfare including, but not limited to, all building,
fire, and health codes, apply to nonconforming uses, buildings and structures.
   G.   Tenancy And Ownership: The status of a nonconformity is not affected by
changes of tenancy, ownership or management. Nonconforming status “runs with
the land”.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
A nonconforming use is one that was lawfully established in accordance with the
zoning regulations in effect at the time of the use’s establishment but that is
no longer permitted by the use regulations of the zoning district in which the
use is now located.
   A.   Continuation: Nonconforming uses may remain, subject to the regulations
of this section.
   B.   Alteration And Expansion:
      1.   Except as expressly prohibited by this section, the zoning
administrator is authorized to permit a nonconforming use to expand into
another part of the same building or alter or expand the existing building;
provided, that the zoning administrator determines that such alteration or
expansion:
         a.   Will not result in a violation of off street parking or loading
requirements;
         b.   Will not violate any applicable dimensional standards;
         c.   Will not result in greater adverse impacts on the surrounding
area with respect to noise, traffic generation, odor or other environmental
effects; and
         d.   Is not expressly prohibited by subsection B2 of this section.
      2.   The following nonconforming uses may not be expanded:
         a.   A nonconforming business or manufacturing use in an R district;
         b.   A nonconforming residential use in a business or manufacturing
district if such expansion increases the number of dwelling units or the area
of the zoning lot.
   C.   Relocation: A nonconforming use may not be relocated, in whole or in
part, to any other lot or parcel unless the relocation brings the use into
compliance with all regulations of the zoning district into which it is
relocated.
   D.   Change Or Substitution Of Use:
      1.   Except as otherwise expressly authorized, a nonconforming use may
not be changed to any use other than a use allowed within the zoning district
in which the use is located. When a nonconforming use has been changed, in
whole or in part, to an allowed use, it may not be changed back to a use that
is not allowed. A change of use will be deemed to occur when an existing
nonconforming use has been terminated and an allowed use has commenced. Any
change in use in violation of this chapter will be deemed an abandonment of the
previous nonconforming use.
      2.   The zoning administrator has the authority to permit the
substitution of one nonconforming use for another nonconforming use within the
same use category; provided, that the substituted use will create no greater
adverse impacts on the surrounding area than the previous use. In making such a
determination, the zoning administrator must consider the following factors:
         a.   Hours of operation;
         b.   Vehicular traffic generation;
         c.   The number of employees, patrons or other people expected to be
attracted to the use; and
         d.   Other factors likely to affect the neighborhood in which the use
is located.
      3.   If the zoning administrator approves a use substitution, the
previous nonconforming use is deemed to have been abandoned. In permitting such
a change in use, the zoning administrator may impose conditions on the
substituting nonconforming use.
   E.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status; Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
continuous months or more all nonconforming use rights are lost and
reestablishment of the nonconforming use is prohibited.
      2.   If a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use is
damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, flood or other means that is not
within the control of the property owner or tenant, to an extent of more than
fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value of the building and/or structure
it may not be reestablished except in compliance with all regulations
applicable to the zoning district in which it is located. This provision does
not apply to single-family dwellings, which may be reestablished in any zoning
district in compliance with subsection E3 of this section.
      3.   If a building, structure or property occupied by a nonconforming use
is damaged or destroyed, by any means not within the control of the property
owner or tenant, to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or less of the replacement
value, it may be repaired, reconstructed or restored provided that no new
nonconformities are created and that the existing degree of nonconformity is
not increased. A building permit must be obtained for such rebuilding,
restoration, repair or reconstruction within one year of the date of damage or
destruction, and the construction must be completed within one year of issuance
of the building permit. If a building permit is not obtained within one year or
the repairs or restoration are not completed within one year of the issuance of
the building permit, then the building and/or structure and use may be
reestablished only if it complies with all regulations of the district in which
it is located.
      4.   In the event that any building, structure or property occupied by a
nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed by a means within the control of the
property owner or tenant, the building and/or structure and use may be restored
or repaired only in compliance with all regulations of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-5: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A nonconforming building or structure is one that was lawfully established in
accordance with the zoning regulations in effect at the time of its
establishment but that is no longer in compliance with one or more dimensional
standards of this title. Common examples of nonconforming buildings or
structures are those that do not comply with current setback, height or
building coverage requirements.
   A.   Continuation: Nonconforming buildings or structures may remain, subject
to the regulations of this section.
   B.   Use: A nonconforming building or structure may be utilized for or
occupied by any use allowed in the applicable zoning district, subject to all
applicable use standards of chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   Alteration And Expansion: The zoning administrator is authorized to
permit the alteration, expansion, enlargement or increase in size of a
nonconforming building or structure; provided, that the zoning administrator
determines that such alteration or expansion:
      1.   Will not result in a violation of off street parking or loading
requirements;
      2.   Will not create any new nonconformities with respect to bulk or
density standards; and
      3.   In the case of an addition that will expand a nonconforming
building, the addition will not encroach any further into the existing
setbacks, further increase nonconforming building height, or increase
nonconforming building coverage.
   D.   Relocation: A nonconforming building or structure may not be relocated,
in whole or in part, to any other location on the same lot or parcel, or to any
other lot or parcel, unless the relocation brings the building or structure
into further or full compliance with the regulations of the zoning district in
which it is relocated. This subsection may not be interpreted as prohibiting
the elevation of a nonconforming building or structure for the purpose of
floodproofing or repair.
   E.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status; Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   If a nonconforming building or structure is damaged or destroyed by
fire, explosion, flood or other means that is not within the control of the
property owner or tenant to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement value of the building or structure, it may not be reestablished
except in compliance with all regulations applicable to the zoning district in
which it is located. This subsection does not apply to single-family dwellings,
which may be fully reestablished in any zoning district in compliance with
subsection E2 of this section.
      2.   If a nonconforming building or structure is damaged or destroyed by
any means not within the control of the property owner or tenant to an extent
of fifty percent (50%) or less of the replacement value, it may be repaired,
reconstructed or restored; provided, that no new nonconformities are created
and that the existing degree of nonconformity is not increased. A building
permit must be obtained for such rebuilding, restoration, repair or
reconstruction within one (1) year of the date of damage or destruction, and
the construction must be completed within one (1) year of issuance of the
building permit. If a building permit is not obtained within one year or the
repairs or restoration are not completed within one year of the issuance of the
building permit, then the building or structure and use may be reestablished
only if it complies with all regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      3.   In the event that any nonconforming building or structure is damaged
or destroyed by a means within the control of the property owner or tenant, the
building or structure and use may be restored or repaired only in compliance
with all requirements of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-6: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
A nonconforming lot of record is a tract of land designated on a duly recorded
subdivision plat, by a duly recorded deed, or by other lawful means that does
not comply with minimum lot area or lot width regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located. No nonconforming lot of record may be improved
except in compliance with this section.
   A.   Use: Any lot in single ownership that became nonconforming upon the
effective date specified in section
10-1-2 of this title or any subsequent amendment and does not meet the
requirements of this title for lot area or lot width may be developed with a
use that is permitted within the applicable district, provided it meets the
standards of this section. The owner of a nonconforming lot of record must
furnish the following additional information with the application for a
building permit:
      1.   A survey by a duly licensed land surveyor, showing the lot upon
which the applicant proposes to build and at least a portion of the lots on
either side of such lot including the width of the adjoining existing side
setbacks as measured to the nearest part of the buildings or structures
thereon.
      2.   An affidavit by the owner of the lot described in the application
for a building permit, stating that no adjoining lots are currently under his
or her ownership.
   B.   Criteria For Use Of Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Upon compliance with
the provisions of subsection A of this section and other applicable provisions
of this title, the zoning administrator may issue a building permit if the
subject lot and proposed development meet the following criteria:
      1.   The nonconforming lot is not adjoining and contiguous to a lot on
either side held under common ownership;
      2.   The nonconforming lot is at least five thousand (5,000) square feet
in area and forty feet (40') in width and was platted on or before December 20,
1982;
      3.   If the underlying zoning district permits a variety of uses, only
one or some of which would meet the dimensional standards for lot area, width
or yards, then only those uses that comply with applicable dimensional and use
standards will be permitted; and
      4.   The proposed development on the nonconforming lot will comply with
all other bulk and density standards of the subject zoning district.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Nonconforming signs are those that were lawfully established but no longer
comply with the sign regulations of this title.
   A.   Continuation: A nonconforming sign may remain, subject to the
regulations of this section.
   B.   Alteration And Expansion: A nonconforming sign cannot be enlarged,
expanded or otherwise improved except for the purpose of normal maintenance and
incidental repairs. The only alteration to a nonconforming sign that is
permitted is a change in the sign face, the words or symbols used or the
message displayed, only to advertise an activity, business, or use conducted or
a product sold on the premises where the sign is located; provided, that the
sign is not abandoned, as defined in subsection E of this section. Any other
alteration or change must be to bring the nonconforming sign into compliance
with the regulations of this title.
   C.   Relocation: A nonconforming sign cannot be relocated, in whole in part,
to any other location unless the relocation results in the entire sign being
brought into compliance with all applicable regulations of this title.
   D.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status; Damage Or Destruction: If a nonconforming
sign is damaged or destroyed by any means not within the control of the
property owner to the extent the that the estimated expense of repairs exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, the sign must be removed or
otherwise brought into compliance with the regulations of this title. Removal
of a nonconforming sign must include removal of the sign face, all support
structures and lighting apparatus.
   E.   Abandonment: Any nonconforming sign that no longer advertises an
activity, business or use conducted or a product sold on the premises where the
sign is located will be deemed to be abandoned after a period of ninety (90)
days. All abandoned signs must be removed or brought into full compliance with
the regulations of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-12-8: OTHER NONCONFORMITIES:
The types of other nonconformities to which this section applies include, but
are not limited to, landscaping, off street parking and loading, curb cuts,
accessory buildings or structures (except nonconforming signs) and other
nonconformities not involving signs, structural aspects of a principal
building, lot dimensions, or use of the property.
   A.   Continuation: Other nonconformities, as defined by this section, may
remain subject to the regulations of this section.
   B.   Alteration And Expansion: Unless otherwise stated in this title, the
zoning administrator is authorized to permit the alteration, expansion or
enlargement of buildings, structures or other site improvement on sites with
other nonconformities; provided, that the zoning administrator determines that
such alteration or expansion will not increase the degree of nonconformity. An
alteration or expansion or to a building that increases the number of required
parking spaces or further reduces the amount of landscaping (where the existing
number of parking spaces or amount of landscaping is currently not in
compliance with this title) are examples of increases in the degree of
nonconformity.
   C.   Reduction In Nonconformities: Over time, it is the intent of this title
to eliminate or reduce the degree of nonconformities to the maximum extent
feasible as buildings, sites or parking areas are redeveloped or expanded.
Examples of the manner in which nonconformities could be reduced are the
following:
      1.   Construction of additional parking spaces on sites that do not meet
parking requirements; and
      2.   Installation of required landscaping within a newly constructed
portion of a parking lot that does not meet landscaping requirements.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 13: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
10-13-1: Responsibility For Enforcement
10-13-2: Violations
10-13-3: Civil and Administrative Enforcement
10-13-4: Penalties
10-13-5: Other Remedies and Powers
10-13-6: Remedies Cumulative
10-13-7: Continuation of Previous Enforcement Actions
10-13-8: Private Remedies Reserved
10-13-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
The zoning administrator is responsible for enforcing this title, unless
otherwise expressly stated.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-2: VIOLATIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly allowed by this title or state law, any violation of
this title will be subject to the remedies and penalties provided for in this
chapter. Such violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   To use land or buildings in any way not consistent with the
requirements of this title;
   B.   To erect a building or other structure in any way not consistent with
the requirements of this title;
   C.   To engage in the development or subdivision of land in any way not
consistent with the requirements of this title;
   D.   To transfer title to any lots or parts of a development unless the land
development plan or subdivision has received all approvals required under
chapter 11 of this title and an approved plan or plat, if required, has been
recorded with the county recorder of deeds;
   E.   To submit for recording with the county recorder of deeds any
subdivision plat, land division or other land development plan that has not
been approved in accordance with the requirements of chapter 11 of this title
or that does not qualify for an exemption under this title;
   F.   To install or use a sign in any way not consistent with the
requirements of chapter 7 of this title;
   G.   To engage in the use of a building or land, the use or installation of
a sign, the subdivision or development of land or any other activity requiring
one or more permits or approvals under this title without obtaining all such
required permits or approvals;
   H.   To engage in the use of a building or land, the use or installation of
a sign, the subdivision or development of land or any other activity requiring
one or more permits under this title in any way inconsistent with any such
permit or approval or any conditions imposed thereon;
   I.   To violate the terms of any permit or approval granted under this title
or any condition imposed on such permit or approval;
   J.   To obscure, obstruct or destroy any notice required to be posted or
otherwise given under this title;
   K.   To violate any lawful order issued by any person or entity under this
title; or
   L.   To continue any violation as defined in this section, with each day of
continued violation to be considered a separate violation for purposes of
computing cumulative civil or criminal penalties.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-3: CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT:
The city has the following remedies and enforcement powers:
   A.   Stop And Cease And Desist Orders: Upon finding the existence of any
violation of this title, the zoning administrator will notify, in writing, the
person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it; specifically, the zoning
administrator will order the discontinuance of any illegal use of land and
structures, the removal of illegal structures, additions, or alterations, and
the discontinuance of illegal work being undertaken.
   B.   Legal Actions: In the enforcement of this title, the zoning
administrator will exercise all the powers authorized by the statutes of the
state of Illinois and city codes and ordinances to ensure compliance with, or
to prevent or abate any violation of, the provisions of this title. In
particular, the zoning administrator will, when necessary or appropriate,
institute or cause to be instituted by the city attorney in the name of the
city of Princeton any and all actions, legal or equitable, including appeals
that may be required for the enforcement of this title.
   C.   Abatement And Liens: When authorized by state law, the zoning
administrator may order any work necessary to abate any violation of this title
and will assess the cost of such work to the property owner. Upon the failure
of the property owner to pay such cost, the zoning administrator will file a
lien for such costs and for all costs of collection against the property in
question.
   D.   Revocation Of Permits: The violation of any provision of this title, or
of any permit or approval granted pursuant to this title, will be grounds for
the revocation of any rezoning, permit, variation, special use or approval
granted pursuant to this title and affecting the property involved in the
violation. The zoning administrator may recommend, and the city council may
order, such revocation; provided, however, that where the original rezoning,
permit, variation, special use, or approval was granted following a public
hearing required pursuant to this title, the revocation will be preceded by a
similar public hearing.
   E.   Fines: In the enforcement of this title, the zoning administrator will,
when necessary and appropriate, order the issuance and enforcement of citations
to recover fines and penalties for the violation of this title as authorized by
state law and this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists enforcement of any
provision of this title will, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation exists or continues will
constitute a separate offense.
    B.   The city may seek any other penalties as provided by Illinois law.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
Cross-reference:
   See chapter 1-4A of the city code for prepayment fine in lieu of court
appearance
10-13-5: OTHER REMEDIES AND POWERS:
The city will have such other remedies and enforcement powers as are and as may
be from time to time provided by Illinois law for the violation of zoning,
subdivision, sign or related provisions.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-6: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
The remedies and enforcement powers established in this chapter are cumulative,
and the city may exercise them in any order.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-7: CONTINUATION OF PREVIOUS ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS:
Nothing in this title may prohibit the continuation of previous enforcement
actions undertaken by the city pursuant to previous and valid ordinances and
laws.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-13-8: PRIVATE REMEDIES RESERVED:
Nothing in this chapter may be interpreted to prevent any person entitled to
relief in law or equity by reason of a violation of the provisions of this
title from bringing an appropriate action to secure such relief.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
CHAPTER 14: TERMINOLOGY
Section
10-14-1: Use Category Descriptions
10-14-2: Definitions
10-14-1: USE CATEGORY DESCRIPTIONS:
   A.   Residential Use Group:
      1.   Household Living:
         a.   Single-Family Dwelling, Attached: A dwelling unit designed for
one family with not more than two (2) lodgers or boarders, having its own
ground floor entrance and open space, and joined to two (2) or more dwellings
by common walls, or other horizontally unifying structural element. This use
type includes townhouses, row houses, and other similar dwelling types.
         b.   Single-Family Dwelling, Detached: A dwelling unit designed for
one family with not more than two (2) lodgers or boarders that does not share a
common wall with any other dwelling and is surrounded on all sides by open
space located on the same lot.
         c.   Multi-Family Dwelling: A building designed for or occupied
exclusively by three (3) or more families.
         d.   Two-Family Dwelling: A building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two (2) families with not more than two (2) lodgers or boarders
per dwelling unit. A two-family dwelling also includes the terms “duplex” and
“two-flat”.
         e.   Employee Living Quarters: Living quarters for persons employed on
the premises and not rented otherwise as a separate dwelling.
         f.   Manufactured Home Park: A lot or adjacent lots providing sites
and utilities for independent manufactured homes either free of charge or for a
fee, including any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended
for use as a part of the manufactured home park. This does not include mobile
homes without plumbing facilities or motorized recreational vehicles. Any park
defined in the mobile home park act, being 210 ILCS 115, or by the city of
Princeton as a “mobile home park” is defined as a “manufactured home park”. See
also the applicable use standards for manufactured home parks in subsection
10-3-2H of this title.
         g.   Residential Planned Development: A residential development
improved according to an overall unified plan that was approved according to
the procedure in chapter 11 of this title.
         h.   Accessory Dwelling Unit: A separate dwelling unit within a
building or structure that is incidental and subordinate to the primary
residential use of the property. The dwelling unit may be stand alone or
constructed above a detached garage.
      2.   Group Living: Residential uses other than household living; usually
provide common kitchen/dining facilities.
         a.   Assisted Living: A group living facility that provides health and
living services for persons who, because of age, illness or infirmity, cannot
live independently but do not require continuous nursing care.
         b.   Community Residence: A single dwelling unit occupied on a
relatively permanent basis in a family like environment by unrelated persons
with disabilities.
            (1)   Small: Small community residences house no more than six (6)
residents plus staff, are certified by the state of Illinois, and are
supervised by full time paid professional support staff whenever residents are
present.
            (2)   Large: Large community residences are either not licensed or
certified by the state of Illinois, or are not supervised, or have seven (7) or
more persons plus staff, whether licensed or not.
         c.   Nursing Care Facility: A facility that provides shelter, and
medical, nursing and/or rehabilitation services for persons who require twenty
four (24) hour skilled nursing supervision and care.
         d.   Transitional Residence: A temporary residential living
arrangement for persons receiving therapy or counseling for purposes including,
but not limited to, the following:
            (1)   Recuperation from drug or alcohol addiction;
            (2)   Assistance with reentering society while housed under
supervision as an alternative to imprisonment, including prerelease, work
release and probationary programs; or
            (3)   Assistance with family or school adjustment problems that
require specialized attention in order to achieve personal independence.
         e.   Group Living Not Otherwise Classified: Group living uses that do
not fit into any other category, such as fraternities, sororities, convents and
monasteries.
   B.   Public And Civic Use Group: The public and civic use group includes
uses that are public or quasi- public in nature.
      1.   College Or University: Institution of higher learning that offers
courses of general or specialized study leading to a degree and is certified by
the state or a recognized accrediting agency.
      2.   Cultural Exhibits And Libraries: Museum like preservation and/or
exhibition of objects in one or more of the arts and sciences; gallery
exhibition of works of art; or a library collection of books, manuscripts and
other materials for study and reading, excluding public assembly facilities,
which are classified as places of public assembly.
      3.   Daycare: A place where three (3) or more unrelated children or
adults are cared for by persons other than parents or guardians, for part or
all of a day.
         a.   Daycare Center: A daycare use that regularly provides care for
eight (8) or more children or adults, whether in a family home or in another
facility.
         b.   Daycare Home: A daycare use that regularly provides care for up
to eight (8) children or adults.
      4.   Hospital: Uses providing medical or surgical care to patients and
offering inpatient (overnight) care.
      5.   Parks And Recreation: Recreational, social or multipurpose uses
typically associated with public parks, public open spaces, outdoor recreation
areas, public or private golf courses, and associated buildings.
      6.   Post Office: Uses associated with the processing and delivering of
mail, including those either owned or leased by postal service companies.
      7.   Public Safety Services: Public safety services that provide fire,
police or life protection, together with incidental storage and maintenance of
necessary vehicles, including, but not limited to, fire stations, police
stations and ambulance services.
      8.   Religious Assembly: Religious uses commonly involving public
assembly as customarily occurs in churches, synagogues, mosques and temples.
      9.   School: Public or private institutions providing education at the
elementary, junior high or high school level that provide state mandated basic
education.
      10.   Social Club Or Lodge: Any establishment, public or private,
commercial or nonprofit, that provides a gathering place for people, with or
without food and beverage, commonly known as, but not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Teen centers.
         b.   Youth centers.
         c.   Senior centers.
         d.   Dance clubs.
      11.   Utility, Major: Services and utilities that have substantial
impacts on surrounding areas, including, but not limited to, water and
wastewater treatment facilities, major water storage facilities, pumping
stations, electric substations, gas regulator stations, telephone transmission
structures, radio, and television and microwave relay towers.
      12.   Utility, Minor: Public utilities that have few, if any, impacts
upon the surrounding neighborhood, such as electrical and gas distribution
substations or power transmission lines.
   C.   Commercial Use Group:
      1.   Adult Use: The term “adult use” includes adult bookstores, adult
motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult model studios, massage establishments or similar
establishments.
         a.   Adult Bookstore: An “adult bookstore” is an establishment having,
as a substantial or significant portion of its sales or stock in trade, books,
magazines, films for sale or viewing on premises by use of motion picture
devices or any other coin operated means, and other periodicals that are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material, or an establishment that holds itself out to the
public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin operated booths, the
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises, or any other factors
showing that the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such material.
         b.   Adult Entertainment Cabaret: An “adult entertainment cabaret” is
a public or private establishment that: 1) features topless dancers, strippers,
male or female impersonators; 2) not infrequently features entertainers who
display specified anatomical areas; or 3) features entertainers who, by reason
of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner that is designed primarily
to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or entertainers who engage in,
or engage in explicit simulation of, specified sexual activities.
         c.   Adult Mini-Motion Picture Theater: An “adult mini-motion picture
theater” is an enclosed building with a capacity for less than fifty (50)
persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
         d.   Adult Motion Picture Theater: An “adult motion picture theater”
is an enclosed building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used
regularly and routinely for presenting material having as a dominant theme
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observations by patrons therein.
         e.   Adult Model Studio: An “adult model studio” is any public or
private establishment that describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or
where, for any form of consideration or gratuity, figure models who display
sexually oriented anatomical areas are provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by persons
paying such consideration or gratuity, or where any form of consideration or
gratuity, nude and seminude dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body
painting and other activities that present materials distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities and specified anatomical areas are provided for
observation by or communication to persons paying such consideration or
gratuity. Excluded from this definition are recognized art courses at
accredited schools, colleges or universities that, as a portion of their
instruction, include drawing, painting, sculpting or photographing a model.
         f.   Massage Establishment: A “massage establishment” is an
establishment that engages in, or permits to be engaged in, the performance of
manual manipulation on the body by another person other than a massage
therapist that involves the hands or a mechanical device. This does not include
therapeutic massage, which is defined as the practice of manual muscle
manipulation by a massage therapist who is a member of a nationally recognized
professional organization for massage therapists that adheres to a code of
ethics, or recreational facilities with more than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet of floor area for exercise rooms, gymnasiums, tennis courts, racquetball
courts, swimming pools or similar uses directly related to exercising the human
body that do not derive more than five percent (5%) of yearly income from
massage services.
         g.   Specified Sexual Activities And Specified Anatomical Areas:
            (1)   The phrase “specified sexual activities” in connection with
adult uses means:
               (A)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
               (B)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
               (C)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock or female breast.
            (2)   The phrase “specified anatomical areas” in connection with
adult uses means:
               (A)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: 1) human
genitals, pubic region, 2) buttock and 3) female breast below a point,
immediately above the top of the areola; and
               (B)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      2.   Animal Services:
         a.   Shelters And Kennels: Any premises where three (3) or more
animals are owned, boarded, bred and/or offered for sale, including, but not
limited to, boarding kennels, dog training centers and animal rescue shelters.
         b.   Veterinary Services: Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
      3.   Art Gallery: Uses dedicated to the showing or sale of art, including
art galleries and studios. Art museums are classified in the “cultural exhibits
and libraries” use category.
      4.   Banks And Financial Services:
         a.   Banks: Financial or securities brokerage services, including, but
not limited to, banks, savings and loan, or consumer investment businesses.
         b.   Payday Loan Store: An establishment other than a bank that
engages in the business of offering payday loans, cashing checks or exchanging
currency. A “payday loan” is a loan transaction where a postdated check or
other check that the parties agree will be held for a period of time before
presentment for payment or deposit is accepted as collateral for the loan.
         c.   Consumer Loan Establishment: Any business that makes loans in a
principal amount not exceeding twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
secured other than by a mortgage or lien on the borrower’s real property or on
personal property acquired by the borrower with the proceeds of the loan, not
including any bank, savings bank, savings and loan association or credit union.
         d.   Pawnshop: An establishment or person (pawnbroker) engaged in the
business of receiving property in pledge or as security for money or other
things advanced to the pawner or pledger.
      5.   Body Art Services: Provision of any of the following procedures:
body piercing; tattooing; cosmetic tattooing; branding; and scarification. This
definition does not include practices that are considered medical procedures by
the Illinois medical board, which may not be performed in a body art services
establishment.
      6.   Business Support Services: Provision of clerical, employment,
protective or minor processing services to firms rather than individuals,
excluding any storage of goods other than samples. Typical uses include
secretarial services, telephone answering services and copying or blueprint
services. Also includes business or trade schools that do not involve any
outdoor storage or manufacturing processes.
      7.   Construction Sales And Service: Construction activities and
incidental storage on lots other than construction sites. Also includes the
retail or wholesale sale of materials used in the construction of buildings or
other structures other than retail sale of paint, fixtures and hardware, and
excluding those uses classified under “vehicle sales and service”. This
category includes, but is not limited to, uses such as building materials
stores, tool rental or sales and building contracting/construction offices.
      8.   Eating And Drinking Establishment:
         a.   Restaurant: An establishment primarily engaged in serving
prepared food to the public, including those with outdoor seating areas.
         b.   Tavern: An establishment primarily engaged in serving alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of prepared
food and live entertainment may be provided.
      9.   Entertainment And Spectator Sports: Provision of cultural,
entertainment, athletic and other events to spectators.
      10.   Funeral And Interment Services:
         a.   Cemetery: Land or facilities used for burial of the dead.
         b.   Cremating: Services involving the purification and reduction of
human remains by fire.
         c.   Funeral Home: An establishment providing services of preparing
the dead for burial and arranging or managing funerals.
      11.   Gas Station: Any building or premises whose principal use is the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any motor vehicle fuels, oil
or accessories, where repair service or car wash facilities is incidental,
where no motor vehicle storage is present and where no motor vehicles are
offered for sale.
      12.   Lodging:
         a.   Bed And Breakfast: An owner occupied detached house in which
sleeping rooms are available for rent for transient occupancy by registered
guests, not including multi-unit residential or accessory buildings.
         b.   Hotel/Motel: An establishment containing lodging rooms for
occupancy by transient guests, with the extent of occupancy limited to thirty
(30) days. Such an establishment may provide customary hotel services such as
maid and bellboy services, furnishing of and laundry of linens used in the
lodging rooms, central desk and meeting rooms.
      13.   Medical Or Dental Clinic: An establishment where patients are not
lodged overnight but are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of
physicians or dentists practicing medicine.
      14.   Miniwarehouse: Storage or warehousing service within a building for
individuals to store personal effects and for businesses to store materials for
operation of an industrial or commercial enterprise located elsewhere, where
such storage space is not used for any retail, manufacturing, wholesale,
business or service use.
      15.   Office: Professional, governmental, executive, management or
administrative offices of private or governmental organizations.
      16.   Personal And Consumer Service: Sale of any service to individual
customers for their own personal benefit, enjoyment or convenience. For
example, consumer services include the provision of personal services such as
beautician and barbering services, specialized instruction, laundry and dry
cleaning services, and all other similar services.
      17.   Retail Sales: Businesses that sell, lease or rent new or used
products to the general public that are not intended for resale.
      18.   Shopping Center Planned Development: A large commercial development
improved according to an overall unified plan that was approved according to
the procedure in chapter 11 of this title.
      19.   Vehicle Sales And Service:
         a.   Car Wash: Any building or site providing facilities for washing
motor vehicles, using either automatic equipment or providing space and
equipment for hand washing of vehicles by either customers or employees.
         b.   Motor Vehicle Repair: A business or premises where repair work on
or for motor vehicles, the replenishing of parts thereto, the changing of
tires, the diagnosis of malfunctions of a motor vehicle, or the estimating of
damage and necessary repairs is conducted.
            (1)   Major: Any motor vehicle repair business or premises that
also performs body work, painting or commercial vehicle repairs.
            (2)   Minor: Any motor vehicle repair business or premises that
does not perform body work, painting or commercial vehicle repairs.
         c.   Light Equipment And Vehicle Sales/Rental: Businesses that sell,
lease, rent or wholesale from the premises automobiles, noncommercial trucks,
motorcycles, trailers with less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds of gross
cargo capacity, motor homes and boat dealers, along with incidental
maintenance.
         d.   Heavy Equipment Sales Or Rental: Businesses that sell, lease,
rent or wholesale from the premises heavy construction equipment, farm
implements, tractors, trucks, or aircraft, along with incidental maintenance.
         e.   Vehicle, Recreational Vehicle Or Boat Storage/Towing: The
operating of a vehicle towing service or the storage of automobiles,
recreational vehicles or boats as a principal use.
   D.   Industrial Use Group:
      1.   Manufacturing, Production And Industrial Service:
         a.   Limited: Manufacturing of finished parts or products, primarily
from previously prepared materials, including, but not limited to, printing and
related support activities; machinery manufacturing; food manufacturing;
computer and electronic product manufacturing/assembly; electrical equipment,
appliance, component manufacturing/assembly; furniture and related product
manufacturing/assembly; and other manufacturing and production establishments
that typically have very few, if any, negative external impacts on surrounding
properties.
         b.   General:
            (1)   Manufacturing of finished or unfinished products, primarily
from extracted or raw materials, or recycled or secondary materials, or bulk
storage and handling of such products and materials, including, but not limited
to: textile mills; textile product mills; apparel manufacturing; leather and
allied product manufacturing; wood product manufacturing; paper manufacturing;
chemical manufacturing; plastics and rubber products manufacturing; nonmetallic
mineral product manufacturing; transportation equipment manufacturing; primary
metal manufacturing; and fabricated metal product manufacturing.
            (2)   Industrial service firms engaged in the repair or servicing
of industrial or commercial machinery, equipment, products or byproducts,
including, but not limited to: welding shops; machine shops; industrial tool
repair; fuel oil distributors; solid fuel yards; laundry, dry cleaning, and
carpet cleaning plants; and photofinishing laboratories.
      2.   Manufacturing Planned Development: An industrial development
improved according to an overall unified plan that was approved according to
the procedure in chapter 11 of this title.
      3.   Research Laboratory: A building or group of buildings in which are
located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or
experimentation, but not primarily facilities for the manufacture or sale of
products.
      4.   Trucking/Freight Terminal: A building or area where freight is
collected, stored and/or dispatched for intrastate or interstate shipment.
      5.   Waste Related Use:
         a.   Junkyard: Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation,
including, among other things, the storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap
metal and discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and
salvaging of unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
         b.   Sanitary Landfill: A method of disposing of refuse by spreading
and covering such refuse with earth to a depth of two feet (2') or more on the
top surface and one foot (1') or more on the sides of the bank.
         c.   Recycling Facility: Any business that engages in the collection,
storage or processing of any type of aluminum, glass, paper, plastic, rubber,
textile, landscape waste or other similar materials for the purpose of
marketing the material for use in the manufacturing process of new, reused or
reconstituted products.
      6.   Warehousing And Wholesaling: Storage, wholesale sales and
distribution of materials and equipment, including, but not limited to, storage
warehouses, moving and storage firms, trucking or cartage operations, truck
staging or storage areas, and wholesale sales of materials and equipment to
parties other than the general public.
      7.   Indoor Commercial Horticulture: A business growing plants indoors
for use by people or animals for food, medicinal purposes, or aesthetic
gratification. This also includes, but is not limited to, “cultivation
centers”, as defined by the Illinois department of agriculture.
   E.   Agricultural Use Group:
      1.   Farming: Activities including, but not limited to, horticulture,
forestry, crop and tree farming, truck farming, natural areas, gardening,
dairy, stock and poultry farming, incidental operation of vehicles; and
excluding uses in violation of IEPA performance standards.
   F.   Other Use Group:
      1.   Accessory Use: A subordinate use that is incidental to and customary
in connection with the principal building or use and is located on the same
lot.
      2.   Drive-Through Facilities: Facilities used to provide or dispense
products or services, through an attendant or a window or an automated machine,
to persons remaining in vehicles that are in a designated stacking aisle. A
drive-through facility may be in combination with other uses, such as a
financial institution, personal service use, retail store or eating
establishment. A drive-through facility does not include a car wash or gas
station.
      3.   Home Occupation: A business use within a dwelling unit, where the
dwelling unit is the principal residence of the business operator.
      4.   Parking:
         a.   Accessory: Motor vehicle parking facilities that provide parking
that is accessory to a specific use or uses.
         b.   Nonaccessory: Facilities that provide motor vehicle parking that
is not accessory to a specific use, regardless of whether a fee is charged.
      5.   Wireless Communication Facility: Facilities related to the use of
the radio frequency spectrum for the purposes of transmitting or receiving
radio signals, and may include, but is not limited to, radio towers, television
towers, telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers, telephone transmission
equipment buildings and commercial mobile radio service facilities. The
wireless communication facility use category includes all associated equipment
unless the written context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended.
The term “associated equipment” is to be read broadly and in context.
Associated equipment may include, but is not limited to: antenna; equipment
shelter or platform; lighting; monopole tower; mounting hardware; and
supporting electrical or mechanical equipment.
         a.   Freestanding: A wireless telecommunication facility that is
attached to an existing pole, tower or other structure including, but not
limited to, a structure that can accommodate the future installation of two (2)
or more antenna systems.
         b.   Collocated: A new tower, monopole or other unattached structure
erected to support wireless communication antennas and connecting
appurtenances.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016)
10-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and terms set forth in this section, wherever they occur in this
title, must be interpreted as defined in this section. Any words not defined as
follows will be construed in their general accepted meanings as defined in the
most recent edition of “Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary”. For a
detailed description of the measurement of lot area, setbacks, height, building
coverage and other dimensional standards, see section
10-4-3 of this title.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure that is customarily
incidental to and subordinate in size or purpose to the principal building or
use and is located on the same lot as the principal building or use.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A separate dwelling unit within a building or
structure that is incidental and subordinate to the primary residential use of
the property. The dwelling unit may be stand alone or constructed above a
detached garage.
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the lot and is located on the same lot.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois department of agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the cannabis regulation and tax act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois department of agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the cannabis regulation and tax act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois department of
financial and professional regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the cannabis regulation and tax act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois department of
agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the cannabis
regulation and tax act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the cannabis regulation
and tax act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois department of agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the community college cannabis vocational
training pilot program, per the cannabis regulation and tax act (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ALLEY: A public right of way that provides a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ALTERATION: Any enlargement, addition, relocation, remodeling or change in
number of dwelling units of buildings that would improve or prolong the life of
the building by affecting supporting members of a building or structure, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders or exterior walls that
are not cosmetic or decorative in nature; an alteration to other an a building
may include a change in site grading, open space or topography, changes to
signs or other structures, but excluding painting and incidental maintenance
and repairs to buildings and structures that do not require a permit.
APARTMENT: See definitions of DWELLING UNIT.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building that is entirely or partly below grade. A
basement is counted as a story when more than one-half (1/2) of its floor to
ceiling height is below grade.
BERM: A raised earth form that provides screening from adjoining land uses.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and built
for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any
kind.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building that is surrounded by open space on the same
lot.
BUILDING LINE: A line representing the actual location of an exterior building
wall.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building of primary importance or function containing
the principal use of the lot.
CALIPER: The diameter of a tree trunk measured six inches (6") above the
ground, or measured at twelve inches (12") above the ground for trees larger
than six inches (6") in diameter.
CITY: The city of Princeton, Illinois.
COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUND FACILITY: A commercial facility, of a minimum of ten (10)
acres, offering temporary seasonal accommodations for tourists and citizens,
not designed for long term lease or stay. Accessory activities, such as
playground facilities, picnic shelters, and special events, may be permitted
throughout the year.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE: Any sign, wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The plan for the development of the city of Princeton that
is prepared by the plan commission and adopted by the city council.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of USE, SPECIAL.
CONSERVATION: Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna and cultural artifacts
in their original state.
CONTRACTOR: Any person or firm engaged in construction, building services or
maintenance, on a contract basis.
CROSSWALK: A right of way that crosses a block and provides pedestrian access
to adjacent streets or properties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street with one open end and the other end permanently closed
with a vehicle turnaround.
DECIDUOUS: A plant that sheds its leaves at the end of each growing season.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner, or the representative thereof, of a
lot or parcel of any land proposed for inclusion in a development, including
the holder of an option or contract to purchase.
DEVELOPMENT: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alternation, relocation or
enlargement of any buildings; any use or change in use of any buildings or
land; any extension of any use of land or any clearing, grading, excavation or
other movement of land, for which permission may be required pursuant to this
title.
DRIP LINE: A tree protection zone that is measured as the diameter defined by
the outer most leaves on a tree.
DRIVEWAY: A strip of land that provides access from the public right of way
onto a lot.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion of a building designed or used as living
quarters for a single family.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner by lawful agreement for the use of a
strip of land by the general public, a corporation, or persons for specific
purposes.
FACADE: The exterior face of a building.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than three (3) persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a
single dwelling unit; in either case, exclusive of usual domestic servants. For
the purpose of this title, however, an unrelated family does not include
persons living together in a community residence.
FENCE: A structure that is a barrier used to mark a boundary, or for
protection, confinement, screening or decoration.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the horizontal areas of each floor of a building,
measured from the exterior limits or faces of the building, not including areas
below grade or accessory structures.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which
are one foot (1') from a uniform point source of one standard candle.
FRONT BUILDING LINE: A line extending across the entire width of the lot
representing the actual location of the exterior front building wall.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A local street that is parallel and adjacent to arterial streets
and expressways, and that provides access to abutting properties and protection
to local traffic from fast, through moving traffic on the arterial streets and
expressways.
GAMING/WAGERING FACILITY: A business that generates greater than fifty percent
(50%) of its gross revenue from gaming or wagering.
GARAGE: An accessory building, or an accessory portion of a principal building,
enclosed on at least three (3) sides that is intended for and used to store
private passenger motor vehicles and no more than one three-quarter ton or
lesser sized truck.
GRADE: The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION: An incorporated nonprofit organization operating under
recorded land agreements through which:
   A.   Each lot and/or homeowner in a subdivision or development or other
described land area is automatically a member;
   B.   Each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share
of the expenses for the organization’s activities that may include enforcement
of governing documents and restrictive covenants, rules regarding construction
and maintenance, and maintenance of common open space and facilities; and
   C.   The charge, if unpaid, becomes a lien against the property.
ILLUMINATION: As related to a sign, means any light directed at, attached to or
otherwise related to a sign, including exposed tubing or bulbs on the sign,
lamps or lights shining onto its surface, or illumination transmitted through
the sign face(s).
   A.   DIRECT ILLUMINATION: A light source that is placed outside of or away
from the sign in a manner so as to illuminate the sign externally.
   B.   INTERNAL ILLUMINATION: A light source that is enclosed within the sign
and viewed through a translucent panel.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA: A hard surface area that prevents or substantially
impedes the natural infiltration of water into the underlying soil, resulting
in an increased volume and velocity of surface water runoff. Impervious surface
includes, but is not limited to, buildings, roadways, driveways, parking,
sidewalks, patios and courts for sports activities.
INTERSECTION, STREET: The point of crossing or meeting of two (2) or more
streets.
LANDSCAPED AREA: An area that is permanently devoted and maintained to the
growing of shrubbery, grass and other plant material.
LOADING SPACE: A space within the main building or on the same lot for the
standing, loading or unloading of trucks, having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room providing sleeping accommodations will be counted as one (1)
lodging room.
LOT: A “zoning lot” unless the context clearly indicates a “lot of record”. The
term “lot” includes the terms “site”, “parcel” and any other similar undefined
term.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear property lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting two (2) streets at their intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1753.png]
 
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE OR THROUGH LOT: A lot that has a pair of opposite property
lines along two substantially parallel streets and that is not a corner lot. On
a through lot, both street lines will be considered front property lines, but
in the case of two (2) or more contiguous through lots, there will be a common
property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1755.png]
 
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot that is not a corner lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1757.png]
 
LOT, RECORDED: A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed, duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the county recorder’s office. A recorded lot may or may
not coincide with a zoning lot.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots; occupied
or to be occupied by a principal building or buildings, or principal use or
uses along with permitted accessory buildings or uses; and meeting all the
requirements for area, buildable area, frontage, width, yards, setback and any
other requirements set forth in this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A residential structure that:
   A.   Is transportable in one or more sections and is essentially ready for
occupancy upon leaving a factory and being installed on a building site;
   B.   Does not require a significant amount of construction on site, unlike
other structures with factory produced components such as modular, panelized or
precut homes;
   C.   Is designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation and
connected to utilities such as plumbing, heating, and electrical systems; and
   D.   Complies with the federal manufactured home construction and safety
standards, but does not comply with local building codes.
Any home defined as a “mobile home” in this title is included in this
definition of “manufactured home”.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A lot or adjacent lots providing sites and utilities
for manufactured homes either free of charge or for a fee, including any
structure or enclosure used or intended for use by occupants. This does not
include mobile homes without plumbing facilities or motorized recreational
vehicles. Any park defined in the mobile home park act, being 210 ILCS 115, or
by the city of Princeton as a “mobile home park” is defined as a “manufactured
home park”.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SERVICE OR COMMUNITY BUILDING: A building housing the
manager’s office, recreation facilities, storage facilities, laundry
facilities, maintenance equipment, toilet facilities for employees, emergency
sanitary accommodations and/or other facilities intended for the use of
manufactured home park occupants.
MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: A parcel of land designated for the exclusive use of
the occupants of a single manufactured home.
MANUFACTURED HOME STAND: A part of a manufactured home space that has been
reserved for the placement of the manufactured home, related structures and/or
additions.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who practices or administers therapeutic massage,
and who has completed at least five hundred fifty (550) hours in a regular
course of study of the underlying principles of anatomy and physiology as
generally recognized by an approved school of massage.
MOBILE HOME: A factory built residential structure that is transportable on
temporary or permanent wheels that was produced prior to the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act, effective June 30,
1976, and contains toilet and bath or shower facilities. Any home defined as a
“mobile home” in this title is included in the definition of “manufactured
home”. This definition does not include recreational vehicles, travel trailers,
campers or buses.
MODULAR HOME: A residential structure built in a factory up to local building
code standards, that is then transported to the site and installed.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion thereof that was
lawfully established in accordance with zoning and other regulations at the
time it was established but no longer complies with the standards of this
title.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that was lawfully established in accordance with
zoning regulations at the time it was established but no longer complies with
the standards of this title.
ORNAMENTAL TREE: A tree less than thirty feet (30') tall at maturity that is
planted for its aesthetic and/or screening value.
PANELIZED HOME: A residential structure partially built in a factory and then
transported in sections, such as an entire wall with windows, doors, electrical
wiring, and siding, and assembled on a site. Panelized homes must comply with
local building codes.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material other than water that is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid at
outdoor ambient conditions.
PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A closed concrete or other masonry foundation that
extends to a depth below the frost line and extends above the surface a
sufficient height to safely support the weight (all lateral and vertical loads)
of the structure. Loose blocks, loose brick or silt construction will not be
considered a permanent foundation.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company or association.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the city of Princeton.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A development improved according to an overall unified
plan that was approved according to the procedure in chapter 11 of this title.
PLOT: A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plans of the
subdivision are presented, submitted for approval and intended to be recorded
in final form.
PRECUT HOME: A residential structure constructed of building materials that are
precut in a factory to design specifications, and then constructed on a site.
Precut homes must comply with local building codes and may include “kit” type
homes or log homes.
PROPERTY LINE, CORNER SIDE: The boundary of a corner lot that adjoins a public
street, other than the front property line.
PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot that adjoins an existing or
dedicated public street; or where no public street exists, is along a public
way. On a corner lot, the front property line is the property line adjacent to
the street that is substantially parallel to the facade with the primary
building entrance.
PROPERTY LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot that is most distant from and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front property line; in the case of an
irregular, triangular or gore shaped lot, a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front property
line.
PROPERTY LINE, SIDE: A boundary of a lot that is not a front property line or a
rear property line.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any boat, boat trailer, trailer, camping trailer, travel
trailer, pickup coach, motor home or other unit built or mounted on a vehicle
or chassis, without permanent foundation, that may legally be driven or towed
by a motor vehicle on a highway or street.
ROAD OR ROADWAY: The paved portion of the street right of way.
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing an area
from view.
SETBACK: An area that must be maintained as open space between a building or
structure and the property line.
SETBACK, CORNER SIDE: The setback required between a building and the corner
side property line, extending from the required front setback to the required
rear setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1759.png]
 
SETBACK, FRONT: The setback required between a building and the front property
line, extending the full width of the lot between the side property lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1761.png]
 
SETBACK, REAR: The setback required between a building and the rear property
line, extending the full width of the lot between the side property lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1763.png]
 
SETBACK, SIDE: The setback required between a building and the side property
line, extending from the required front setback to the required rear setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1765.png]
 
SIGN: Any display, figure, painting, drawing, placard, poster or other device
visible from a public way that is designed, intended or used to convey a
message, advertise, inform or direct attention to a person, institution,
organization, activity, place, object or product. It may be a structure or part
thereof painted on or attached directly or indirectly on a structure. This
definition does not include any flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state,
city or other political units, as well as any sign, board or surface used to
display or announce official notice of such political units.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign that generally advertises goods or services that are
not available on the premises on which the sign is located.
SIGN, ANIMATED: A sign with action, motion or color changes requiring
electrical energy, electronic or manufactured sources of supply, including wind
activated elements, including video screens, and including intermittent or
sudden changes in light intensity, but not including signs defined as
changeable copy signs.
SIGN, BUSINESS: Any sign that directs attention to the name of the business
establishment’s goods or commodities sold or services rendered, on the lot on
which the sign is located.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY: A sign capable of displaying words/symbols,
figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote
or automatic means.
SIGN, FREE SPEECH: A sign that contains a message related to a matter of public
interest deemed by the person posting the sign, including, but not limited to,
a candidate for office or a ballot issue, but containing no commercial message.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign on a frame, pole or other support structure that is
not attached to a building or any structure that is designed to be moved, such
as on wheels, skids or other similar device.
SIGN, INCIDENTAL: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose secondary
to the use of the zoning lot on which it is located, such as “no parking”,
“entrance”, “loading only”, “telephone” and similar information and directives.
No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the zone lot on
which the sign is located will be considered incidental.
SIGN, MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY: A message center or reader board where different
copy changes of a public service or commercial nature are shown on the same
lamp bank, but not including rapid changes in light intensity or blinking
features.
SIGN, MARQUEE: A sign that is attached to the side or underside of a marquee or
canopy that extends from a building and covers the walkway, which identifies
the entrance to an establishment or its attraction.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Any sign that is not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure, or a sign that is designed to be transported by
means of wheels, skids or other similar device. A “portable sign” does not
include a “sandwich board sign”.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign that is suspended from, attached to or supported by a
building or structure extending away from the building or structure a distance
of more than twelve inches (12").
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: Any sign which advertises or announces the sale, rental or
lease of the premises upon which lot the sign is located.
SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD: A portable sign constructed to form an “A” or tentlike
shape, hinged or not hinged at the top.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign of any type to announce special events or sales or to
announce the sale, lease or rental of property, and designed for use for a
limited period of time.
SIGN, WALL OR PANEL: A sign integral with the exterior face of an exterior wall
of a building, or attached to the wall or parallel with the wall and projecting
not more than twelve inches (12") from the wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1767.png]
 
SIGN, WIND BLOWN: A sign consisting of balloons or objects designed and
fashioned in such a manner as to move when subjected to wind pressure.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign painted, attached or affixed to the interior or exterior
surface of the windows or doors of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0515df9d4571c76c43f9e71620fb092c5ef8e5e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1769.png]
 
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and ceiling next above, including all levels with at least
half of their height aboveground. A basement or below grade floor will be
counted as a story when more than one-half (1/2) its floor to ceiling height is
aboveground.
STREET: A public right of way that provides a primary means of access to
abutting property.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designed to carry large traffic volumes between
areas of the city, including Main Street, Peru Street, 6th Street and Elm
Place, as described in the comprehensive plan.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designed to carry low to medium traffic volumes at
lower speeds, including Clark Street, Central Avenue, Park Avenue, Euclid
Avenue, Church Street, Thompson Street and Linn Street, as described in the
comprehensive plan.
STREET, LOCAL: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires a more or less permanent
location on the ground; or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. A sign, billboard or other advertising device detached or
projecting will be construed to be a structure.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, for the immediate
or future purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, including
all public streets, alleys, ways for public service facilities, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds, and all the tracts,
parcels, lots or blocks, and numbering all such lots, blocks or parcels by
progressive numbers, giving their precise dimensions. The following will not be
considered a subdivision and will be exempt from the requirements of this
title:
   A.   The division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels or tracts
of five (5) acres or more in size that does not involve any new streets or
easements of access;
   B.   The redivision of land not involving more than three (3) lots and not
requiring new streets to be dedicated;
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as right
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities that does not involve
any new streets or access easements;
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility that
does not involve any new streets or access easements;
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes; grants or
conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use; or instruments
relating to the vacation of land for a public use;
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE: The practice of a profession, scientifically applied to
the patient by the massage therapist by means of manual manipulation of the
muscle tissue that affects all systems of the human body.
TOXIC SUBSTANCE: Material that is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRANSITION YARD: An area that functions as a buffer between land uses and/or
zoning districts that is landscaped and free of buildings or other site
improvements.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
Unless otherwise expressly indicated, the term “use” means “principal use”.
USE, PERMITTED: A use that is allowed by right in the subject zoning district
in accordance with all applicable regulations of this title.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The primary activity or combination of activities for which the
land, buildings or structures on the lot are intended, designed or ordinarily
used.
USE, SPECIAL: A use allowed in the subject zoning district only if reviewed and
approved in accordance with the special use procedures of chapter 11 of this
title and with all applicable regulations of this title.
YARD: An open space on a lot that is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise provided in this title.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this title.
(Ord. O-65-06-08-07, 8-7-2006 as revised 3-2016; Ord. O-19-025, 12-2-2019)
