VILLAGE OF RIVERTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 24-25, passed 9-16-2024
State legislation current through 2024 Legislative Service #6
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 13-024
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF
RIVERTON, ILLINOIS; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF THE PRIOR CODE OF ORDINANCES
AND PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1-2-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the
Village President may appoint persons to revise the Village's ordinances, and
the corporate authorities may enact an Ordinance adopting such revisions;
   WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1-2-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the
Village retained the services of American Legal Publishing to revise the
Village's Ordinances, and American Legal Publishing, after consultation with
the Village Board, has tendered to the Village a revised Code of Ordinances for
the Village's adoption; and said Code is current through June 7, 2013;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF RIVERTON, SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1: The book of revised ordinances entitled "Village of Riverton
Revised Code of Ordinances" prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation
("American Legal"), is hereby adopted and enacted, and shall be treated and
considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede
all other general and permanent ordinances passed by the President and Board of
Trustees on or before June 7, 2013. Said book shall be known as the "Village of
Riverton Code of Ordinances".
   SECTION 2: All general ordinances of the Village of Riverton enacted prior
to June 7, 2013, including but not limited to the Village of Riverton Code of
Ordinances as heretofore published and amended from time to time by LexisNexis
Municipal Codes, are hereby repealed, except such as are included in the
Riverton Code of Ordinances or are by necessary implication reserved from
repeal. Ordinances of the Village of Riverton which are not general ordinances
are not repealed, including, without limitation, tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; and ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village.
   SECTION 3: All general ordinances of the Village of Riverton adopted after
June 7, 2013 and before the date of this Ordinance, shall be incorporated into
the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances at its next update. Henceforth, all
ordinances, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the
corporate authorities to make them a part of the Village of Riverton Code of
Ordinances, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code so that reference
to the "Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances" shall be understood and
intended to include such additions and amendments. From time to time as
determined by the corporate authorities, the Village of Riverton Code of
Ordinances will be revised by American Legal, or some other codification
service, to include such ordinances.
   SECTION 4: A copy of the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances shall be
placed and kept on file in the Office of the Clerk, preserved in loose leaf
form and shall be made available for public inspection and copying by any
person, and without the necessity of a written request.
   SECTION 5: The Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances shall also be
published as soon as practicable on the Village's website, and thereafter
updated from time when the Code is updated by American Legal or some other
codification service.
   SECTION 6: The Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances shall be in full force
and effect immediately. The Clerk shall publish this Ordinance in pamphlet
form.
   PASSED this 2nd day of December, 2013.
                                    Thomas F. Rader /s/
                                    Village President
ATTEST:
Tiffany Graves /s/
Village Clerk
AYES: Trustees Patrick, Fisher, Charles, Bartley, Mileham and Raycraft
NAYS:  ____
PASSED:    12-2-13
APPROVED:   12-2-13
ABSENT:                 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Interpretation; journal reference
   
10.02   Application to future legislation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   General definitions; construction
   
10.05   Rule of separability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Ordinances repealed
   
10.09   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 INTERPRETATION; JOURNAL REFERENCE.
   (A)   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be designated and cited
as “The Riverton Code”.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (C)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, the reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the Illinois Compiled Statutes section. Footnotes,
cross-references and other comments are by way of explanation only and should
not be deemed a part of the text of any section. Historical references
following a section show the ordinance number where applicable, the journal
book wherein the ordinance has been filed and the date of passage, along with
any amendments to the sections.
(Prior Code, § 10.001)
§ 10.02 APPLICATION TO FUTURE LEGISLATION.
   All of the provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation,
shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.002)
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.003)
§ 10.04 GENERAL DEFINITIONS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (B)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   Either conjunction “and” or “or” shall include the other as if written
“and/or”.
   (D)   A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to be
limited to the class enumeration unless expressly so limited.
   (E)   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Riverton.
      CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village
of Riverton, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
      COUNTY. The County of Sangamon, Illinois.
      ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      ILL. REV. STAT. Illinois Revised Statutes.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      PERSON. (and its derivatives) A corporate body or any body of persons
corporate or incorporate.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and shall
embrace all chattels real.
      SHALL. Considered mandatory and not directory, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code, as adopted hereby,
and as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
(Prior Code, § 10.004)
§ 10.05 RULE OF SEPARABILITY.
   Each chapter, section or, whenever divisible, part section of this code of
ordinances is hereby declared to be separable, and the invalidity of any
chapter, section or divisible part section shall not be construed to affect the
validity of any other chapter, section or part section of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.005)
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, re-codified or re-numbered unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.006)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office or officer exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in
the provision irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the
official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.007)
§ 10.08 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature of the village pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated by this code, and adopted prior to the effective date of this code,
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances; provided, however, that, nothing contained herein shall affect any
rights, actions or causes of action which shall have accrued to the village
prior to the effective date of this code of ordinances. All prior ordinances
adopted after 7-1-2013, but prior to the effective date of this code, shall not
be deemed repealed by the adoption of this code and shall be construed and take
effect as amendments of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.008)
§ 10.09 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.009)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.010)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any natural person or legal person who or which violates any provision
of this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $250 or more than $750. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive and other equitable
relief compelling persons violating provisions of this code and owners and
occupiers of property which is maintained or permitted to have conditions which
violate this code to cease and desist further violations of this code, and the
village may avail itself of any and all remedies provided by the Illinois
Municipal Code or common law with respect to abatement of nuisances or other
conditions for which the Illinois Municipal Code provides an equitable remedy.
CHAPTER 11: ORDINANCES
Section
   
11.01   Ordinances to be recorded by the Clerk
   
11.02   Clerk shall preserve and correct ordinances
   
11.03   Date of passage and publication to be recorded
   
11.04   Revised ordinances
   
11.05   Repealed ordinances
   
11.06   No suit or the like released and the like by repeal of ordinance
   
11.07   Officers may elect remedies from which to proceed
   
11.08   President and Acting President
   
11.09   Ordinances, how construed
   
11.10   General terms and the like to be liberally construed
   
11.11   Publication of certain ordinances
§ 11.01 ORDINANCES TO BE RECORDED BY THE CLERK.
   All ordinances passed by the President and Board of Trustees shall be
deposited in the office of the Village Clerk, and shall be duly recorded by the
Clerk in the record book of ordinances, and appropriately indexed by their
titles or subjects.
(Prior Code, § 11.001)
§ 11.02 CLERK SHALL PRESERVE AND CORRECT ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall file and carefully preserve the originals of
all ordinances deposited in his or her office.
   (B)   He or she may correct any errors in the numbering of any chapter,
article or section of any ordinance, and insert the proper numbers; and he or
she may omit words inserted or supply, with brackets, words omitted by clerical
mistake.
(Prior Code, § 11.002)
§ 11.03 DATE OF PASSAGE AND PUBLICATION TO BE RECORDED.
   The Clerk shall make, at the foot of the record of each ordinance recorded
as aforesaid, a memorandum of the date of its passage and of the publication of
the ordinance (when required to be published), together with the name of the
paper publishing the same.
(Prior Code, § 11.003)
§ 11.04 REVISED ORDINANCES.
   The revised ordinances of the village, when published in book form, by
authority of the President and Board of Trustees, shall be deposited with the
Village Clerk. A copy shall be available in the board room, and a copy shall be
available in the Village Office for public inspection. The Clerk shall also see
that the revised code of ordinances is posted on the village's website.
(Prior Code, § 11.004)
§ 11.05 REPEALED ORDINANCES.
   When any ordinance or part thereof shall be repealed or modified by a
subsequent ordinance, the ordinances or part thereof, so repealed or modified,
shall continue in force until the taking effect of the ordinance repealing or
modifying the same. No ordinance or part thereof repealed by the President and
Board of Trustees shall be deemed to be revived by the repeal of the repealing
ordinance, unless it shall be therein so expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 11.005)
§ 11.06 NO SUIT OR THE LIKE RELEASED AND THE LIKE BY REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No suit, proceeding, fine, penalty, forfeiture, debt, right or other
liability whatever, instituted, incurred, created, given repeal or
modification, shall be annulled, released, discharged or, in any way, affected
by the passage of the repealing or modifying ordinance; but the same may be
prosecuted, recovered, completed and enjoyed, as fully in all respects as if
the ordinance or part thereof had remained in full force, unless otherwise
expressly provided in the ordinance making the repeal.
(Prior Code, § 11.006)
§ 11.07 OFFICERS MAY ELECT REMEDIES FROM WHICH TO PROCEED.
   When any fine or penalty shall be provided by different ordinances, or by
different sections or clauses of the ordinances of the village, for the same
offense, the officer or person prosecuting may elect under which ordinance or
section to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 11.007)
§ 11.08 PRESIDENT AND ACTING PRESIDENT.
   When any duty shall be required of, or power vested in, the President, the
same shall be deemed to extend to and embrace and may be exercised by the
Acting President also.
(Prior Code, § 11.009)
§ 11.09 ORDINANCES, HOW CONSTRUED.
   When the provisions of different ordinances, or of the different portions of
any ordinances, conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions and
requirements of each ordinance or chapter shall prevail as to all subjects,
matters and questions arising out of or embraced within the subject matter
thereof. But, if different or conflicting provisions be found in different
sections of the same ordinance, the provisions of the section which is last in
numerical order shall prevail, unless the construction would be repugnant to or
inconsistent with the meaning of the ordinance or chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.010)
§ 11.10 GENERAL TERMS AND THE LIKE TO BE LIBERALLY CONSTRUED.
   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions, used in this or any
ordinance hereafter passed, shall be liberally construed, in order that the
true intent and meaning of the President and Board of Trustees may be carried
out.
(Prior Code, § 11.011)
§ 11.11 PUBLICATION OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the village imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or
forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall, within ten days after they are
passed, be published by the Village Clerk once, in a secular newspaper of
general circulation published in the village, or by publication in book or
pamphlet form by authority of the village officials in accordance with the
state statutes, and the ordinances shall take effect ten days after they are so
published. All other ordinances, resolutions and orders shall take effect and
be in force from and after their passage and approval, unless by statute or
therein otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 11.012) (Ord. 75-005, passed 4-1-1975)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES; RULES OF ORDER
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY
      
35.   VILLAGE POLICIES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 30: PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES; RULES OF ORDER
Section
President
   
30.01   Election and term of office
   
30.02   Duties
   
30.03   Designation of duties
   
30.04   Bond; oath; compensation
   
30.05   President pro tem
Board of Trustees
   
30.20   Election; functions
   
30.21   Meetings
   
30.22   Special meetings
   
30.23   President
   
30.24   Quorum
   
30.25   Standing committees
   
30.26   Special committees
   
30.27   Committee membership
   
30.28   Disturbing meetings
   
30.29   President to preside; deciding vote
   
30.30   Ordinances; approval; veto
   
30.31   Officers not to be interested in village contracts
Rules of Order
   
30.45   Order of business
   
30.46   Rescinded action
   
30.47   Citizen participation in meetings
   
30.48   Suspension of rules
   
30.49   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.50   Meetings to be public
   
30.51   No contract without appropriation
   
30.52   Meetings; payment of President and Trustees
   
30.53   Electronic attendance at meetings
Vacancies
   
30.65   Electronic attendance request
PRESIDENT
§ 30.01 ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village President shall be elected for a term of four years, commencing
at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board on or after May 1
following his or her election, and shall be the President of the Board of
Trustees as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.001) (Ord. 2003-008, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 30.02 DUTIES.
   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and he or she
shall perform all duties that may be required of him or her by statute or
ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all executive officers of the
village, and he or she shall have the power and the authority to inspect all
books and records kept by any village officer or employee at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 30.002)
Statutory-reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 30.03 DESIGNATION OF DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a question as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this shall be settled by the President; and
he or she shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty which
is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty.
(Prior Code, § 30.003)
§ 30.04 BOND; OATH; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the President
shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, in the sum as
set by legislative authority.
   (B)   The President of the Board of Trustees of the village shall perform
such duties as are prescribed for him or her by state statute and ordinances of
the village.
   (C)   The compensation of the President of the Board of Trustees of the
village for his or her services shall be as set by legislative authority.
(Prior Code, § 30.004)
Statutory-reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/4-4-1 and 5/4-4-2
§ 30.05 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the Board
of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President pro tem, who,
during the absence or disability of the President, shall perform the duties
pertaining to that office.
(Prior Code, § 30.005)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.20 ELECTION; FUNCTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall have six Trustees. The Trustees shall be elected
to office for four-year terms commencing at the first regular or special
meeting of the Village Board on or after May 1 following their election. This
Board shall be the legislative department of the village government, and shall
perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.010) (Ord. 2003-008, passed 4-21-2003)
Statutory-reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5
§ 30.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the
first and third Mondays of each month, beginning at 7:00 p.m. Public notice
shall be given as provided by statute.
   (B)   The meeting place of such Board shall be the Village Hall, unless
otherwise ordered by the Board; provided that, if such meeting date should fall
on a legal holiday, or if there is no quorum present, the meeting shall be held
on the next secular day.
(Prior Code, § 30.012) (Ord. 132, passed 6-19-1961)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised during the 2013 recodification.
§ 30.22 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the President of the village or any three
Trustees upon at least 24-hours’ written notice to all members and the
President; provided that, if all the Trustees are present at a special meeting,
no notice of the meeting shall be necessary and such notice shall be deemed
waived. Public notice shall be given as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.013)
§ 30.23 PRESIDENT.
   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of all regular and
special meetings of the Board of Trustees and at all times when the Board meets
as a committee of the whole.
(Prior Code, § 30.014)
§ 30.24 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum, but no ordinance shall
be passed, except upon a favorable vote of a majority of the elected members,
as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.015)
§ 30.25 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Establishment. The following standing committees of the Board of
Trustees are hereby established.
      (1)   Administrative. The Administrative Committee shall monitor and
supervise all matters relating to administration of village government,
administration of the Village Personnel Code and personnel policies, budget,
land acquisition, finance, grants and loans, insurance, codification of
ordinances, licensing, library, franchises and all other matters not assigned
any other standing committee. The Committee Chairperson shall on contract
negotiation team for all union contracts and shall serve as the Board’s point
of contact with Riverton Library Board. The Committee shall review and
recommend policies and practices respecting these subjects to the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   Public Health and Safety. The Public Health and Safety Committee
shall monitor and supervise all matters relating to police, emergency
management, animal control, weeds, trash, mosquitoes, recycling programs and
dangerous buildings. The Committee Chairperson shall serve on contract
negotiation team for union contract with Police Union and shall serve as the
Board’s point of contact with Riverton Fire Department and Emergency Management
personnel. The Committee shall review and recommend policies and practices
respecting these subjects to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Public Works. The Public Works Committee shall monitor and
supervise all matters relating to streets, alleys, sidewalks, ditches,
culverts, overlay program, MFT program, snow removal program, traffic codes,
public rights-of-way, street lights and signals. The Committee Chairperson
shall serve on contract negotiation team for union contract with Public Works
Union and shall serve as the Board’s point of contact with Clear Lake Township.
The Committee shall review and recommend policies and practices respecting
these subjects to the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Public Parks and Recreation. The Public Parks and Recreation
Committee shall monitor and supervise all matters relating to parks
maintenance, parks scheduling, summer programs, special events, Riverfest
liaison, Tree Board and camping sites. The Committee Chairperson shall serve as
the Board’s point of contact with all local and school sports leagues. The
Committee shall review and recommend policies and practices respecting these
subjects to the Board of Trustees.
      (5)   Public Utilities. The Public Utilities Committee shall monitor and
supervise all matters relating to water, sewer, gas and electric matters,
utility billing, utility disconnects and reconnects and utility rates. The
Committee Chairperson shall serve on contract negotiation team for union
contract with Electric Union and shall serve as the Board’s point of contact
with IMEA, IMGA, and IMUA. The Committee shall review and recommend policies
and practices respecting these subjects to the Board of Trustees.
      (6)   Economic Development and Historic Preservation. The Economic
Development and Historic Preservation Committee shall monitor and supervise all
mattes relating to economic development, building and property maintenance
codes, commercial, and residential development, zoning, annexations, building
permits, comprehensive plant, development incentives, historic documentation
and preservation. The Committee Chairperson shall serve as liaison with
Springfield Chamber of Commerce, local Chamber of Commerce, and businesses. The
Committee shall review and recommend policies and practices respecting these
subjects to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   The committees shall be composed of three Trustees, one of whom
shall be the Chairperson.
      (2)   The President shall be an ex-officio, non-voting member of all
committees other than the Administrative Committee, of which the President is a
voting member.
   (C)   Appointment of committee members. Members of all standing committees
and the Chairperson shall be appointed by the President with the advise and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Committee meetings.
      (1)   All committee meetings shall be conducted in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order or other such rules of procedure as may be adopted by
the committee.
      (2)   A majority of the members appointed to any committee constitutes a
quorum. Ex-officio members may not be counted for the purpose of determining
the presence of a quorum.
      (3)   Meetings of the committees may be called by the Chairperson. The
Chairperson shall, within two days, call a meeting upon the written request of
a majority of the members thereof.
      (4)   Notice of meetings of committees shall be duly posted or published
and such meetings shall be open to the public, and otherwise conducted in full
compliance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Reports.
      (1)   Any written committee reports shall be signed by a majority of the
members thereof and filed with the Village Clerk. Minority reports may be
filed.
      (2)   The Chairperson of each committee shall report committee action to
the President and Board of Trustees at the regular Board meeting thereof next
ensuing after the occurrence of such committee action.
      (3)   The President shall promptly advise the appropriate committee
chairperson of actions or occurrences relating to the subject of review, or
filed of responsibility, which do not conform with policies, procedures or
practices approved by the committee or the Board of Trustees; in case of any
emergency concerning the subject or responsibility of a standing committee, the
President or such other responsible village official or employee shall promptly
advise the Chairperson of such committee of the occurrence. The Chairperson
shall forthwith advise the members of said committee of such emergency and
shall take such actions as may be deemed necessary and convenient, all
circumstances considered.
      (4)   The President shall provide each committee copies of correspondence
and documents received and engaged in by the President relative to the subject
of review of field of responsibility of the appropriate committee. The
Chairperson of each committee shall provide the President with copies of
correspondence and documents received or engaged in by the committee relative
to its subject of review or field of responsibility.
   (F)   Terms of appointments. Appointments to all committees shall become
effective upon approval of such appointment by the Board of Trustees of the
village. Appointments of standing committees shall be for one year or for the
appointee’s term of office, whichever occurs sooner, unless sooner terminated
by law, resignation or action of the Board of Trustees. Appointments to other
committees shall be for the duration of the committee or the appointee’s term
of office, whichever occurs sooner, unless sooner terminated by law,
resignation or action of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.016) (Ord. 93-010, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 95-018, passed 9-22-
1995; Ord. 96-023, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 99-020, passed 5-25-1999; Ord. 13- ,
passed - -2013)
§ 30.26 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees shall be created from time to time as is directed by the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.017)
§ 30.27 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP.
   All standing and special committees shall be composed of two members,
including the Chairperson, unless the Board directs otherwise. All committees
shall be appointed by the Village President.
(Prior Code, § 30.018) (Ord. 84-015, passed 8-7-1984)
§ 30.28 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any meeting of the Board of
Trustees or of any committee thereof. The Village President or other officer
chairing any meeting may order the ejection by the Village Police from the
meeting of any person who persists in disturbing a meeting after having been
requested to cease and desist.
(Prior Code, § 30.019)
§ 30.29 PRESIDENT TO PRESIDE; DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Village President shall preside at all meetings of the Village
Board. He or she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; and
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees have voted in favor of an ordinance,
resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote.
   (B)   In both instances specified, the Village President shall vote.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting President or President
pro tem from voting in his or her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not
be entitled to another vote in his or her capacity as acting President or
President pro tem.
(Prior Code, § 30.020)
§ 30.30 ORDINANCES; APPROVAL; VETO.
   (A)   (1)   All resolutions and motions:
         (a)   That create any liability against the village;
         (b)   That provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money;
or
         (c)   To sell any village or school property, and all ordinances,
passed by the Village Board shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
      (2)   If the Village President approves an ordinance or resolution, he or
she shall sign it.
      (3)   Those ordinances, resolutions, and motions which the Village
President disapproves shall be returned to the City Council, with the Village
President's written objections, at the next regular meeting of the City Council
occurring not less than five days after their passage.
      (4)   The Village President may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation,
and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the Village President
may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution, or motion making an
appropriation, and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the
Village President may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution, or
motion making an appropriation.. If the Village President fails to return any
ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her written
objections within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the
absence of the Village President's signature.
   (B)   Every resolution and motion specified in division (A), and every
ordinance, that is returned to the Board by the Village President shall be
reconsidered by the Board at the next regular meeting following the regular
meeting at which the Board receives the Village President's written objection.
If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the trustees then holding office
agree at that regular meeting to pass an ordinance, resolution, or motion,
notwithstanding the Village President's refusal to approve it, then it shall be
effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Village President's
veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
§ 30.31 OFFICERS NOT TO BE INTERESTED IN VILLAGE CONTRACTS.
   No member of the Board of Trustees or other village officer shall be
directly or indirectly interested in any contracts, work or business of the
village, or the sale of any article, the expense, price or consideration of
which is paid from the treasury, or by any assessment levied by any act or
ordinance; nor in the purchase of any real estate or other property belonging
to the corporation, or which shall be sold for taxes or assessments, or by
virtue of legal process at the suit of such corporation.
(Prior Code, § 30.023)
RULES OF ORDER
§ 30.45 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business for Board Meetings will normally be as follows, but
the Village President may change the order in his or her discretion:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Pledge of Allegiance;
   (C)   Approve prior minute minutes and pay bills;
   (D)   People to address the Board;
   (E)   Old business;
   (F)   New business;
   (G)   Department head reports;
   (H)   Committee reports;
   (I)   Executive session, if any;
   (J)   Action as result of executive session, if any; and
   (K)   Adjourn.
§ 30.46 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be rescinded at any special
meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there is present at such special
meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as were present at the meeting
when such vote or action was taken, as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.026)
§ 30.47 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   The following rules shall govern citizen participation in meetings.
   (A)   Persons desiring to be recognized and speak at open meetings of the
Village Board or other public body of the village are encouraged, but are not
required, to notify the Village Board or other public body at least one working
day prior to the meeting of the subject matter upon which they wish to speak so
that the village and its staff can better respond to the person’s concerns.
   (B)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village shall be recognized at the time set forth on the agenda for the
meeting.
   (C)   Prior to addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village, a person shall state his or her name and give a home or business
address with telephone number or email address at which the person can be
reached.
   (D)   Persons shall be recognized in the order determined by the Village
President or other officer presiding at the meeting. A person shall have the
floor for a maximum of five minutes unless that time is extended in the
discretion of the Village President or other presiding officer.
   (E)   If a group of persons share a particular concern, the group will be
encouraged, but not required, to appoint one or more spokespersons to speak on
behalf of the group.
   (F)   The Village President or other presiding officer may, in his or her
discretion, limit a person’s remark below the five minutes provided in division
(D) above if the person’s remarks are cumulative or duplicative of remarks
already made by some other person.
   (G)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body of the
village shall do so with proper decorum and respect. The Village President or
other presiding officer may terminate the presentation of any person violating
this division (G). Any person found by the Village President or other presiding
officer to have violated this rule on three separate occasions within a
calendar year shall thereafter, for a period of at least one year, be required
to submit remarks or presentations to the village only in writing.
   (H)   Persons addressing the Village Board or other public body at a special
meeting shall limit their remarks to items on the agenda for the special
meeting.
   (I)   Presentations to the Village Board shall be limited to a person’s
business with the village or concerns regarding village business, property,
personnel or operations. The Village President or other presiding officer may
terminate any presentation to the Village Board which includes personal attacks
or the advancement of political, social or other agendas unrelated to the
business, property, personnel or operations of the village.
   (J)   Presentations to the any public body other than the Village Board
shall be limited to matters under the jurisdiction of such public body. The
presiding officer may terminate any presentation which includes personal
attacks or matters not under the jurisdiction of the public body.
   (K)   These rules are not a limit on the Village President’s or other
presiding officer’s authority to expel persons who have breached the peace at a
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.028) (Ord. 2011-004, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 30.48 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.029)
§ 30.49 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Board of
Trustees, except when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 30.030)
§ 30.50 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Board of Trustees at which any action is taken affecting
the municipality shall be open to the public, except where otherwise provided
by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.031)
§ 30.51 NO CONTRACT WITHOUT APPROPRIATION.
   No contract shall hereafter be made by the President and the Board of
Trustees, or any committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred
by any officer, or any of the officers or departments of the village, whether
the object of the expenditure shall have been ordered by the President and the
Board of Trustees or not, unless an appropriation shall have been previously
made concerning such expense, except as herein otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 30.032)
§ 30.52 MEETINGS: PAYMENT OF PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   (A)   For terms of office beginning after the consolidated election of April
1997 of the President of the Board of Trustees of the village, the President
will receive for his or her services $200 for his or her attendance at each
regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees. The President may be
allowed two absences in each year for which compensation may be paid at the
rate set herein. The President may miss more than two meetings per year and
still receive payment at the set rate if such President can show due cause for
such additional absences such as illness of the President, serious illness of a
member of the President’s immediate family, a death in the President’s
immediate family or other like cause.
   (B)   For terms of office beginning after the consolidated election of April
1995 of the present Trustees of the village, a member of the Board of Trustees
of the village will each receive for his or her services $100 for his or her
attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees. Each
Trustee may be allowed two absences in each year for which compensation may be
paid at the rate set herein. A Trustee may miss more than two meetings per year
and still receive payment at the set rate if such Trustee can show due cause
for such additional absences such as illness of the Trustee, serious illness of
a member of the Trustee’s immediate family, a death in the Trustee’s immediate
family or other like cause.
(Prior Code, § 30.033) (Ord. 79-004, passed 4-3-1979; Ord. 83-002, passed 1-18-
1983; Ord. 84-020, passed 2-18-1984; Ord. 95-003, passed 1-30-1995)
§ 30.53 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Generally. Members of the corporate authority of the village (defined
as Village Trustees and the Village President, and referred to in this section
as “members”) may participate in and vote electronically at public meetings of
the Village Board, in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Conditions. A member may attend a meeting electronically if the member
meets the following conditions.
      (1)   The member shall notify the Village Clerk at least six hours before
the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can
be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements shall
result in denial of a request for remote attendance.
      (2)   The member shall assert one of the following three reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business related to his or her duties with the village; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other major
emergency.
      (3)   Personal trips, vacations or personal convenience shall not
constitute a valid reason for electronic attendance, such actions being at
variance with the intent of the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
   (C)   Authorization to participate.
      (1)   The Village Clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance
request, shall promptly inform the Village President or person expected to be
the presiding officer at such meeting of the request for electronic attendance.
      (2)   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where the member desires to attend electronically, the presiding
officer shall state and the minutes shall record that a notice was received
from the member in accordance with this section.
      (3)   The member shall be deemed authorized to attend the meeting
electronically unless a motion objecting to the member’s electronic attendance
is made, seconded and approved by two-thirds of the members physically present
at the meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded, or if any such motion
fails to achieve the required vote by the members physically present at the
meeting, then the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically
shall be deemed approved by the Village Board and the presiding officer shall
declare the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding
officer, the question of a member’s electronic attendance may not be
reconsidered.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and members participating in person must be able to communicate effectively.
Further, the village shall make a reasonable effort to ensure that members of
the audience are able to hear all communication and votes of the member. Before
allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the Village Board shall provide
equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting, if
the member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and
state specifically whether each member is physically present or present by
electronic means. A member actually attending electronically shall not count
towards a quorum.
   (F)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to attend electronically
shall be entitled to express his or her comments during the meeting and
participate in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject
to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered
to. The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered and counted
as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending
electronically shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the Village Clerk and placed in the minutes for the
corresponding meeting. A member attending electronically may leave a meeting
and return as in the case of any member; provided, the member attending
electronically shall announce his or her leaving and returning.
   (G)   Attendance form. An attendance form for use as a request for
electronic participation a record of the member’s e-mail, telefax or telephone
request is attached to this chapter as §
30.65 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.034) (Ord. 2010-017, passed 6-7-2010)
VACANCIES
§ 30.65 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE REQUEST.
   The following is the electronic attendance request:
   I hereby request to electronically attend the meeting of the Riverton
Village Board or Committee on
                                                    , 201     ,       , at
                   p.m.
   I am eligible to participate electronically because of [check one]:
                                     (1)   personal illness or disability
                                     (2)   employment purposes or business of
the public body
                                     (3)   a family or other emergency
During the meeting, I will be at the following location:
                                                                                                                                         
   And reachable at the following phone number:
                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                  
   Name of Member                           Date
                                            
Signature of Member
OR
Request received by             phone             e-mail             fax
               other
                                                                                    
Signature of Clerk                           Date
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. A) (Ord. 2010-017, passed 6-7-2010)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Effect
   
31.002   Appointments
   
31.003   Term of office; vacancies
   
31.004   Moneys received
   
31.005   Oath
   
31.006   Salaries
   
31.007   Assignment of duties
   
31.008   Records
   
31.009   Bond
   
31.010   Termination of office
   
31.011   Fiscal year
   
31.012   Light duty
   
31.013   Credit card use policy
   
31.014   Travel and expenses reimbursement policy
Code of Ethics
   
31.025   Declaration of policy
   
31.026   Conflict of interest
   
31.027   Disclosure of income
   
31.028   Future employment
   
31.029   Enforcement
   
31.030   Cellular phone service
   
31.031   Equipment and credit card use
Gift Ban Act
   
31.045   Definitions
   
31.046   Prohibited political activities
   
31.047   Gift ban; general rule
   
31.048   Exceptions to general rule
   
31.049   Disposition of gifts
   
31.050   Ethics advisor
Village Clerk
   
31.065   Appointment of Clerk; term
   
31.066   Bond
   
31.067   Signatures
   
31.068   Duties
   
31.069   Records
   
31.070   Seal
   
31.071   Documents
   
31.072   Indices
   
31.073   Additional duties
   
31.074   Deputy Clerk
   
31.075   Compensation for Village Clerk
Village Treasurer
   
31.090   Appointment; term
   
31.091   Oath and bond
   
31.092   Receive money; keep accounts; give receipts
   
31.093   Keep register
   
31.094   Not to use village funds
   
31.095   Report of delinquent officers
   
31.096   Method of keeping books
   
31.097   Monthly statements to President and Board of Trustees
   
31.098   Annual report; publication
Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.115   Established
   
31.116   Supervision
   
31.117   Responsibilities designated
   
31.118   Discharge by Board only
Office Manager
   
31.130   Established
   
31.131   Supervision
   
31.132   Responsibilities designated
   
31.133   Discharge by Board only for cause
 
   
31.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 EFFECT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and
employees of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or position or the time of appointment of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 32.001)
§ 31.002 APPOINTMENTS.
   All officers other than elective officers shall be appointed by the
President and Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute; provided that, all
employees shall, in the absence of any provision to the contrary, be appointed
or selected by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.002)
§ 31.003 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office until May 1
following this appointment, or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   In case of a vacancy in any such office, it shall be filled in the
same manner as which appointments or selections are made unless it is otherwise
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 32.003)
§ 31.004 MONEYS RECEIVED.
   Every officer of the village shall, at least once a month, turn over all
money received by him or her in his or her official capacity to the Treasurer
with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(Prior Code, § 32.004)
§ 31.005 OATH.
   Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
take the oath prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 32.005)
§ 31.006 SALARIES.
   All officers and employees of the village shall receive such salary and
reimbursement for special expenses as may be from time to time provided by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.006)
§ 31.007 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to assign to any appointive
officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific
officer; and shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers or duties of officers.
(Prior Code, § 32.007)
§ 31.008 RECORDS.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, all records kept by any officer or
employee of the village shall be open to inspection by the President or member
of the Board of Trustees at all reasonable times, whether or not such records
are required to be kept by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.008)
§ 31.009 BOND.
   Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Board of Trustees, upon
entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount and
with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
(Prior Code, § 32.009)
§ 31.010 TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the village, upon the expiration of his or her
term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books
and records which may be the property of the village and, if no successor has
been appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property
shall be delivered either to the Village Clerk or the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 32.011)
§ 31.011 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall commence on May l in each year.
(Prior Code, § 32.013)
§ 31.012 LIGHT DUTY.
   Whenever a village employee, due to injury or other cause, requests light
duty, or whenever the village determines it wishes to require an employee to
perform light duty, the Village Personnel Committee shall in each case make a
determination of what light duties are appropriate for the employee and will be
required of the employee. The Committee shall send the employee’s treating
physician a list of the employee’s duties and request the physician to indicate
which duties are appropriate. Based upon the physician’s determination and the
needs of the village, the Personnel Committee shall make its determination. The
Personnel Committee may, in its discretion, require periodic updates from the
treating physician as a condition of continued light duty.
(Prior Code, § 38.020) (Ord. 2008-031, passed 9-15-2008)
§ 31.013 CREDIT CARD USE POLICY.
   (A)   In order to simplify purchasing of goods and services, the village may
obtain credit cards for use by village officers and employees.
   (B)   The village credit card program shall be administered by the Office
Manager, who shall keep a record of all village credit cards and the persons to
whom they have been furnished. All persons to whom a credit card is issued
shall acknowledge, in writing, receipt of this Credit Card Use Policy. Only a
person to whom a card is issued may use the card.
   (C)   Credit cards may only be used for the purchase of any goods and
services needed in the conduct of village business, including but not limited
to fuel, office supplies, tools, spare parts, uniform items and safety
equipment expressly authorized by a collective bargaining agreement, and
maintenance services. Credit cards may also be used for travel expenses for
official business, but only if approved in advance by the Village Board.
   (D)   Credit cards shall never be used for any Internet purchase except by
or in the presence of the Office Manager.
   (E)   All expenditures made with a village credit card shall be documented
with a receipt showing the date of purchase, name of vendor, and product or
service involved. The receipt shall be signed by the officer or employee making
the expenditure and annotated with a statement of the purpose of the
expenditure, and in the case of fuel purchases, the vehicle or equipment
involved. Receipts shall be turned into the Office Manager within two working
days of the date of expenditure.
   (F)   The Office Manager shall, together with the Village President or
Chairman of the Administration Committee, review all credit card statements and
shall match all expenditures on statements with receipts, prior to such
statements being recommended to the Village Board for payment.
   (G)   In no event shall any person use a village credit card for any cash
advance or in an automated teller machine.
   (H)   There shall be no personal use of any village credit card for any
reason whatsoever.
   (I)   Credit cards shall be returned to the Office Manager upon demand in
the Officer Manager's sole discretion.
   (J)   Lost or stolen credit cards shall be promptly reported to the Office
Manager.
(Ord. 13-016, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 31.014 TRAVEL AND EXPENSES REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The village will reimburse employee and officer travel, meal,
and lodging expenses incurred in connection with pre-approved travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred on behalf of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply as written to this
section unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (C)   Authorized types of official business. Travel, meal and lodging
expenses shall be reimbursed for employees and officers of the village only for
purposes of official business conducted on behalf of the village, which
includes but is not limited to off-site or out-of-town meetings related to
official business and seminars, conferences and other educational events
related to the employee’s or officer’s official duties. Employee travel will be
approved in advance by the employee’s supervisor. Travel of the Village
President and trustees will be approved in advance by the Village Board. Travel
of other village officers will be approved in advance by the Village President.
   (D)   Reimbursable expenses and limits.
      (1)   CMS rates for meals, lodging and mileage. Reimbursable expenses for
meals and lodging and for mileage will be limited to those amounts established
by the State of Illinois Department of Central Management Services from time to
time and published on the internet (currently, www.illinois.gov/cmc/Employees/
travel/Pages/TravelReimbursement.aspx ). These expense limits in force as of
the date of this section are attached to Ord. 16-031; however, when the
Department of CMS publishes changes in its limits, the village’s limits shall
be deemed to be changed in like amount.
      (2)   Airfare. Since official business of the village does not normally
involve air transportation, all air transportation expenses for any employee or
officer of the village must be approved by the Village Board in advance.
Travelers are expected to obtain the lowest available airfare that reasonably
meets business travel needs. Only coach or economy tickets will be paid or
reimbursed. The traveler will pay for the difference between higher priced
tickets and coach or economy tickets with his or her personal funds.
      (3)   Automobiles. If a village-owned vehicle is available, it will be
used. There will be no reimbursement of the cost of rental cars. For personal
vehicles, mileage reimbursement will be based on mileage from the Village Hall
to the off-site location of the official business, not from the employee’s or
officer’s residence. When attending a training event or other off-site official
business directly from an employee’s or officer’s normal commute, reimbursement
will be paid based on the differential of the commute less the mileage of a
normal commute to the workplace.
      (4)   Other transportation. The traveler should utilize hotel shuttle
service or other shuttle services, if available. If none are offered, the use
of the most economic transportation is encouraged.
      (5)   Vacation in conjunction with business travel. In cases where
vacation time is added to a business trip, any cost variance in airfare, car
rental, lodging and/or any other expenses must be clearly identified on the
travel, meal, and lodging expense report form and paid by the traveler.
      (6)   Accompanied travel. When a traveler is accompanied by others not on
official business, any lodging, transportation, meals or other expenses above
those incurred for the authorized traveler will not be reimbursed by the
village.
      (7)   Parking. Parking fees at a hotel or motel will be reimbursed only
with a receipt. Valet parking will not be reimbursed.
   (E)   Approval of expenses.
      (1)   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by any employee in
excess of $250 must be approved in an open meeting by a majority roll-call vote
of the Village Board.
      (2)   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by the Village
President or any Village Trustee any mount must be approved by roll call vote
at an open meeting of the Village Board. Travel meal and lodging expenses
advances as a per diem to any employee or any member of the Village Board must
be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the Village Board prior to
payment. Documentation of expenses must be provided in accordance with
divisions (C), (D), and (F) of this policy, and any excess from the per diem
must be repaid.
   (F)   Documentation of expenses. 
      (1)   Before an expense for travel, meals, or lodging may be approved
under division (E) of this policy, the following minimum documentation must
first be submitted, in writing, to the Village Board on a travel, meal, and
lodging expense form:
         (a)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expense have already been incurred;
         (b)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal or lodging expense;
         (c)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
         (d)   The date or dates and nature of the official business for which
the travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
      (2)   All documents and information submitted under this section are
public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
      (3)   The village hereby adopts as its official standardized form for the
submission of travel, meal, and lodging expenses the travel, meal, and lodging
expense report form attached to Ord. 16-031.
   (G)   Entertainment expenses. No employee or officer shall be reimbursed for
any entertainment expense, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program,
event or other official business.
(Ord. 16-031, passed 12-19-2016)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.025 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public office
not be used for personal gain. In recognition of this goal, there is hereby
established this Code of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether
elected or appointed, paid or unpaid. The provisions and purpose of this
subchapter and such rules and regulations, as may be established pursuant
hereto, are declared to be in the best interest of the village.
(Prior Code, § 32.015)
§ 31.026 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No elected official or other official or employee, whether paid or
unpaid, shall engage in any business or transaction or shall have a financial
or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties in the public interest or would
tend to impair his or her independence of judgement or action in the
performance of his or her official duties. Personal, as distinguished from
financial, interest includes an interest arising from blood or marriage
relationships or close business association.
   (B)   The following are hereby designated as constituting conflicts of
interest:
      (1)   Engaging in or accepting private employment or rendering services
for private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of official duties or would tend to impair independence of
judgement or action in performance of official duties;
      (2)   Appear on behalf of private interests before any agency of the
village excepting without compensation and only in the course of duties as a
representative of the electorate or in the performance of public or civic
obligations; and/or
      (3)   Failing to disclose the full nature and extent of a substantial or
controlling financial interest in or any substantial dealings as a debtor,
creditor or otherwise in connection with any business entity contracting with
the village for the sale of real estate, materials, supplies or services. Such
official, with or without such disclosure, shall refrain from voting upon or
otherwise participating in any such transaction, contract or sale.
(Prior Code, § 32.016)
§ 31.027 DISCLOSURE OF INCOME.
   (A)   An official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, who has a direct or
indirect financial or other interest in any transaction, the disposition of
which may be influenced by his or her official position or action, shall
disclose all sources of income and the nature and extent of any personal
interest in such transaction as an officer, agent, member or owner of any
business entity or other association which is subject to regulation by the
village.
   (B)   Such disclosure shall remove any presumption of conflict of interest
for any transaction where the information disclosed is pertinent.
(Prior Code, § 32.017)
§ 31.028 FUTURE EMPLOYMENT.
   It shall be improper for any administrative member of the staff or any
appointive official serving on the Zoning Board of Appeals to appear within a
period of two years after the termination of his or her employment for the
village or the termination of the appointive official’s term of office before
the agency in which he or she was formerly employed in connection with any case
or other matter with which he or she was directly connected while an official
or employee, or as a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 32.018)
§ 31.029 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing herein contained shall create or detract from the civil or criminal
liability of any public official or employee, or any other laws or ordinances.
Violations of any provisions of this code shall constitute a cause for
suspension, removal from office or employment or other disciplinary action by
the appropriate authority.
(Prior Code, § 32.019)
§ 31.030 CELLULAR PHONE SERVICE.
   (A)   The village hereby terminates all cellular phone service for elected
and appointed officers and employees, except a single cellular phone for the
Police Department.
   (B)   The Office Manager is directed forthwith to cancel all cellular phone
service agreements, except for the police cellular phone, on the most favorable
terms he or she can obtain for the village.
(Prior Code, § 32.020) (Ord. 95-020, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 31.031 EQUIPMENT AND CREDIT CARD USE.
   (A)   All elected officials of the village shall forthwith turn in all
village-owned equipment in their personal possession, including, but not
limited to, computers, radios and automobiles, to the Village Hall.
   (B)   All elected village officials shall immediately return all village
credit cards to the Office Manager.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing any elected
official from properly utilizing village equipment in the performance of his or
her duties. However, all such equipment shall remain in the custody and control
of the village departments when it is not in actual use. It shall be checked in
and out when in actual use.
(Prior Code, § 32.021) (Ord. 95-021, passed 11-6-1995)
GIFT BAN ACT
§ 31.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Bargaining over terms and conditions of employment,
including hours, wages, and other conditions of employment, as detailed in § 7
and which are not excluded by § 4. (5 ILCS Ch. 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The village.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by an officer or by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with the officer or with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the officer or by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 32A.001) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
§ 31.046 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined in this subchapter.
No officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the
village in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person, designated as follows, shall be denied or deprived of
employment or tenure solely because he or she is a member or an officer of a
political committee, of a political party or of a political organization or
club:
      (1)   In a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of
public employment; or
      (2)   In a position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by
federal funds and that is subject to the federal standards for a merit system
of personnel administration applicable to grant-in-aid programs.
(Prior Code, § 32A.002) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
§ 31.047 GIFT BAN; GENERAL RULE.
   Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined in this subchapter,
or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source
shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
(Prior Code, § 32A.003) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.048 EXCEPTIONS TO GENERAL RULE.
   (A)   Section 31.047 of this chapter is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day; provided that, the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (A)(8), CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means;
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this division (A)(10), INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an
officer or employee from another officer or employee; and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL
GIFT means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (B)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
(Prior Code, § 32A.004) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
§ 31.049 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee does not violate this subchapter if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under § 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered or
succeeded.
(Prior Code, § 32A.005) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
§ 31.050 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   The Village Attorney shall be the ethics advisor for the village. As such,
the Village Attorney shall provide guidance to the officers and employees of
the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter and state ethics laws.
(Prior Code, § 32A.006) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.065 APPOINTMENT OF CLERK; TERM.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President with the
concurrence of the Village Board. The term of office will be four years, or
until a successor is appointed and is qualified.
§ 31.066 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Village Clerk
shall execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as is provided by
statute, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.002)
§ 31.067 SIGNATURES.
   The Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the village and all
licenses, permits and documents as shall require this formality.
(Prior Code, § 31.003)
§ 31.068 DUTIES.
   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of the Board of Trustees and preserve all
ordinances enacted in an ordinance book as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 31.004)
Statutory-reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.069 RECORDS.
   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the Clerk is
required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued; and the payments thereon; a record showing all of the
officers and regular employees of the village; and such other records as may be
required by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.005)
§ 31.070 SEAL.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal, and shall fix its
impression on documents whenever this is required.
(Prior Code, § 31.006)
§ 31.071 DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the village
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.007)
§ 31.072 INDICES.
   The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto may be had.
(Prior Code, § 31.008)
§ 31.073 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties herein provided, the Clerk shall perform such
other duties and functions, as may be required by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.009)
Statutory-reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 31.074 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Office of Deputy Clerk is hereby created. The Deputy Clerk shall
have all the powers of the Clerk, but shall act only in the event the Clerk is
unavailable to discharge his or her duties. The Clerk may appoint one Deputy
Clerk, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Clerk, and shall have a term
coextensive with that of the Clerk.
   (B)   The Deputy Clerk shall receive as his or her sole compensation, the
sum of $100 per meeting attended.
(Prior Code, § 31.011) (Ord. 2009-036, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.075 COMPENSATION FOR VILLAGE CLERK.
   From and after the expiration of the present term of office of the Village
Clerk, the Village Clerk will receive for his or her services $400 per month.
The Village Clerk may be allowed two absences in each year for which
compensation may be paid at his or her full compensation if such Clerk can show
due cause for such additional absences such as illness of the Clerk, serious
illness of a member of the Clerk’s immediate family, a death in the Clerk’s
immediate family or other like cause.
(Prior Code, § 31.012) (Ord. 89-003, passed 1-7-1989)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.090 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   There is created the Office of Treasurer, who shall be appointed
annually on May 1 of each year by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   He or she shall serve for a term of one year or until his or her
successor has been duly appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 31.015)
§ 31.091 OATH AND BOND.
   The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take the oath of office prescribed for village officers and execute a
bond to the village in the penal sum of double the amount of the taxes to be
collected during the fiscal year, with not less than two good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and the payment
of all money received by him or her according to law and the ordinances of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 31.016)
Statutory-reference:
   Duties, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-1
§ 31.092 RECEIVE MONEY; KEEP ACCOUNTS; GIVE RECEIPTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the village, and
shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and debts and
credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give to every person paying money
into the village treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment
and upon what account paid, and he or she shall file copies of such receipts
with the Village Clerk at the date of his or her monthly report.
(Prior Code, § 31.017)
§ 31.093 KEEP REGISTER.
   He or she shall keep an accurate register of all warrants redeemed and paid
by him or her, showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which
paid and the name of the person to whom paid, as well as when paid; and he or
she shall cancel all warrants as soon as redeemed by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.018)
§ 31.094 NOT TO USE VILLAGE FUNDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep all moneys in his or her hands belonging to
the village separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she is
hereby expressly prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the
village money or warrants, in his or her custody or keeping, for his or her own
use or benefit, or that of any other person or persons whomsoever; and any
violation of this section shall subject him or her to removal from office by
the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.019)
§ 31.095 REPORT OF DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk
any officer authorized to receive money for the use of the village who may fail
to make a return of the moneys so received by him or her at the time required
by law or by the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.020)
§ 31.096 METHOD OF KEEPING BOOKS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such
manner as to show with entire accuracy all moneys received and disbursed by him
or her for the village, stating from whom and what amount received, and to whom
and on what account paid out, and in such way that such books and accounts will
exhibit, at all times, the true financial condition of the village, and in such
manner as may be readily investigated and understood; and the same, together
with all files and papers of such office, shall at all times be open to
examination by the President, the Clerk, the Committee on Finance or any member
of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.021)
§ 31.097 MONTHLY STATEMENTS TO PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Village Treasurer shall, at the first regular meeting in each month,
render an account, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
such account, the condition of each appropriation and the balance of money in
the treasury. He or she shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of
all moneys received into the treasury and on what account, together with all
warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which such warrants, with any and all
vouchers held by him or her, shall be delivered to the Village Clerk, and filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office upon the day of such
settlement. He or she shall return all warrants paid by him or her and stamped
and marked “paid”. He or she shall keep a register of all warrants.
(Prior Code, § 31.022)
§ 31.098 ANNUAL REPORT; PUBLICATION.
   The Village Treasurer shall report to the President and Board of Trustees as
often as required a full and detailed account of all the receipts and
expenditures of the corporation, as shown by his or her books, up to the time
of said report; and he or she shall annually, prior to September 1 of each
year, make out and file with the Clerk a full and detailed account of all such
receipts and expenditures, and of all his or her transactions, as such
Treasurer, during the preceding fiscal year, and shall show in such account the
state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year; which account the Clerk
shall immediately cause to be published in a newspaper printed in such village,
if there be one, and if not, then by printing in a newspaper having a general
circulation within the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.023)
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.115 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established the Office of Superintendent of Public Works. The
Superintendent of Public Works will work not less than 20 hours per week, or
more than 30 hours per week, but may set his or her own hours depending on the
needs of the village. The salary of the Superintendent of Public Works shall be
established from time to time by separate ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 38.001) (Ord. 99-051, passed 11-5-1998; Ord. 2010-023, passed 6-
21-2010)
§ 31.116 SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent of Public Works (hereinafter “Superintendent”) is
responsible for the overall supervision of the Gas, Water, Sewer, Streets and
Electric Departments of the village. In accordance with the Personnel Code, the
Public Works Superintendent is subject to the overall supervision of the
Village President and the various committees of the Board with jurisdiction
over his or her activities. On a day-to-day basis, the Public Works
Superintendent is subject to the direct supervision of the Village President.
The Public Works Superintendent shall comply with any lawful directive or work
order of the Village President or any Village Board committee chair.
(Prior Code, § 38.002) (Ord. 99-051, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 31.117 RESPONSIBILITIES DESIGNATED.
   The Superintendent of Public Works has the following responsibilities.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall keep informed of all objectives and policies
of the Village Board by attending all Village Board meetings unless excused,
and by attending committee meetings when requested.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall keep the Village President and the Village
Board fully informed on the status of his or her departments and the personnel
working in those departments. The Superintendent shall provide a written report
of him or her and his or her Department’s activities at each regularly
scheduled Village Board meeting. The Board may prescribe the format of such
reports.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall make recommendations to the Village President
and the Village Board regarding planned projects, policy formulation and
implementation, and equipment and personnel needs.
   (D)   The Superintendent shall have primary supervisory authority over the
personnel in his or her several departments. The Superintendent is responsible
for the efficient operation of those departments, and the efficient allocation
and scheduling of personnel and equipment in and among those departments.
Except in the exercise by the Village President of his or her authority as
chief executive officer of the village, or in the absence of the
Superintendent, no appointed or elected official shall have direct supervisory
responsibility over such personnel.
   (E)   The Superintendent shall see to it that village equipment and
personnel are not used for anything other than public purposes. The
Superintendent shall promptly report to the Village President and Board any
breach or attempted breach by any village officer, employee or independent
contractor of this policy.
   (F)   The Superintendent shall meet at least weekly with the Village
President and, in addition, whenever requested by the Village President. At
least weekly, the Superintendent shall contact each committee chair with
jurisdiction over his or her activities to discuss the status of all pending
public works projects under that committee’s jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 38.003) (Ord. 99-051, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 31.118 DISCHARGE BY BOARD ONLY.
   The Superintendent may be discharged only by the Village Board in accordance
with the village’s Personnel Code.
(Prior Code, § 38.004) (Ord. 99-051, passed 11-5-1998)
OFFICE MANAGER
§ 31.130 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Office of Office Manager.
(Prior Code, § 38.010) (Ord. 96-015, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 31.131 SUPERVISION.
   The Office Manager is responsible for the overall supervision of the village
office and shall have those areas of responsibility contained on a list
attached to the ordinance codified in this section as Exhibit A and on file in
the office of the Village Clerk. In accordance with the Village Personnel Code
and the ordinances of the village pertaining to committees of the Village
Board, the Office Manager is subject to the supervision of the Administrative
Committee of the Village Board although, upon request, the Office Manager shall
report to other committees having jurisdiction over utilities with respect to
the Office Manager’s activities involving utilities. In accordance with village
ordinances, the Office Manager shall also be subject to the supervision of the
Village President as the chief executive officer of the village, and to the
full Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 38.011) (Ord. 96-015, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 31.132 RESPONSIBILITIES DESIGNATED.
   The Office Manager also has the following responsibilities.
   (A)   The Office Manager shall keep informed of all objectives and policies
of the Village Board by attending all Village Board meetings unless excused,
and by attending committee meetings when requested.
   (B)   The Office Manager shall keep the Village Board and relevant
committees fully informed on the status of the village office and the personnel
working in that department.
   (C)   The Office Manager shall make recommendations to the Village Board
regarding planned projects, policy formulation and implementation, equipment
and personnel needs, and plans, procedures and techniques necessary to carry
out the plans, programs and directives of the Village Board.
   (D)   The Office Manager shall have exclusive supervisory authority over the
personnel in the village office. Except in the absence of the Office Manager,
no appointed or elected official shall have direct supervisory responsibility
over such personnel; all requests for use of personnel and equipment shall be
made through the Office Manager or, in the absence of the Office Manager,
through the heads of the various departments.
   (E)   The Office Manager shall see to it that village equipment and
personnel are not used for anything other than public purposes for projects
having the approval of the Village Board. The Office Manager shall promptly
report to the Board any breach or attempted breach by any village officer,
employee or independent contractor of this policy.
   (F)   The Office Manager shall meet from time to time with the Village
President in order to implement policies, programs and procedures mandated by
the Village Board. The Office Manager shall promptly report to the Board any
command or directive from the Village President which is at variance with
policies, procedures and plans of the Board. Subject to the President’s powers
with respect to natural disasters and other emergencies, the Office Manager
shall have the privilege of seeking guidance from the Board or the relevant
committee thereof before complying with any directive of the Village President
which the Office Manager believes may be inconsistent with Board programs,
procedures and policies.
(Prior Code, § 38.012) (Ord. 96-015, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 31.133 DISCHARGE BY BOARD ONLY FOR CAUSE.
   In accordance with the Village Personnel Code, after serving the
probationary period mandated by the Personnel Code, the Office Manager may be
discharged only by the Village Board and only for cause.
(Prior Code, § 38.013) (Ord. 96-015, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons violating §§
31.045 through
31.050 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 per offense.
Violations shall be prosecuted by the Village Attorney at the specific request
of a majority of corporate authorities upon motion made, seconded and adopted.
In any case where a member of the corporate authority is accused of a violation
of §§
31.045 through
31.050 of this chapter, such member shall abstain from any such vote. In any
case of an alleged violation of §§
31.045 through
31.050 of this chapter by the Village Attorney or by a member of the corporate
authorities, the village shall obtain separate counsel to handle the
prosecution. In a case where the corporate authorities believe a criminal act
has occurred, they may direct the Village Attorney to refer the matter to the
State’s Attorney for prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 32A.007) (Ord. 99-018, passed - -; Ord. 2004-013, passed 5-3-
2004)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Limitations
   
32.03   Establishment
   
32.04   Coordinator
   
32.05   Deputy Coordinator
   
32.06   Assistant Coordinators
   
32.07   Functions
   
32.08   Local disaster emergencies
   
32.09   Purchasing and expenditures
   
32.10   Oath
   
32.11   Testing of disaster warning devices
   
32.12   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
32.13   Immunity
   
32.14   Compensation
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the President of the village with the
duty of carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, acts of domestic terrorism, other acts
defined as a "disaster" pursuant to Section 4 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/4), or other acts giving rise to a state of
emergency as contemplated by Section 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/11-1-6).
   DISASTER OPERATIONS. The functions created in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter to be performed by the village and other political subdivisions
to alleviate the effects of disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The coordination of functions by the state and its
political subdivision, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, emergency aviation services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
or threatened areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
to protecting life or property.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A written declaration or proclamtion of the
Village President, under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute a
disaster, describing the nature of the disaster and declaring that a Local
State of Emergency exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this
section.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village or incorporated town.
   UNITED STATES. The several states, the District of Columbia and the
possessions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.001) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 20-003, passed 3-
26-2020)
§ 32.02 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute;
except that, action otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment of public affairs;
but any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations and newspapers) may be requested to transmit or
print public service messages furnishing information or instructions in
connection with a disaster or emergency;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but the village emergency preparedness
plan shall place reliance upon such forces available for performance of
functions related to disaster emergencies; and
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Village President or the
Board of Trustees vested in them under the Constitution, statutes or common law
of the state or village, independent of or in conjunction with any provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.002) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created an agency of the village to be known as the
Village Emergency Management Agency (EMA) to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or a human-made disaster, in
accordance with the State Emergency Management Act.
   (B)   The Village EMA created pursuant to this chapter supersedes any civil
defense agency or emergency service and disaster agency heretofore created by
the village, including the Village ESDA heretofore existing, the powers,
functions, personnel and assets of which are hereby transferred to the Village
EMA created hereby.
   (C)   The Village EMA shall consist of the Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator,
Assistant Coordinators and other such technical, clerical and other
administrative personnel as may be selected by the coordinator with the
approval of the Village President or Village Administrator, and may make such
expenditures within their appropriation therefore as may be necessary to carry
out the purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   The Village EMA shall have jurisdiction over and serve the entire
village, village property not located within the corporate limits of the
village, and with the approval of the Village Board of Trustees, any other area
which may decide to contract with the village for emergency management
assistance.
   (E)   The Village Fire Department, by agreement with the village, shall
perform the duties of the Village EMA and the Coordinator, Deputy Coordinators
and Assistant Coordinators shall be comprised of active members of Village Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.003) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2011-013, passed
6-20-2011)
§ 32.04 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Chief of the Village Fire Department shall serve as
coordinator of the Village EMA. The Fire Chief shall serve as Coordinator until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The Coordinator established pursuant to this chapter shall have a
term of office commencing on 6-20-2010; until that time, the current
Coordinator shall remain in office.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Village EMA as prescribed in the
village’s emergency preparedness plan subject to the direction and control of
the Village President. He or she shall coordinate the activities of all
organizations for emergency management operations within the area served by the
Village EMA and shall maintain liaison and cooperate with the emergency
management agency of the county.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
of the Coordinator, the Deputy Coordinator, or his or her designee, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.004) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2011-013, passed
6-20-2011)
§ 32.05 DEPUTY COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The two Deputy Fire Chiefs of the Village Fire Department shall serve
as Deputy Coordinators of the Village EMA. The Deputy Fire Chiefs shall serve
as Deputy Coordinators until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (B)   The Deputy Coordinator shall act under the direction of the
Coordinator in regards to daily and emergency functions.
   (C)   In the event of the absence of the Coordinator, the Deputy Coordinator
shall be and act as Coordinator with direction of the Village EMA.
   (D)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
of the Deputy Coordinator, the Senior Assistant Coordinator, in regards to time
served, shall be and act as Deputy Coordinator until a new appointment is made
as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.005) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2011-013, passed
6-20-2011)
§ 32.06 ASSISTANT COORDINATORS.
   (A)   The Assistant Coordinators of the Village EMA shall be selected and
appointed from among the active officers/members of the Village Fire Department
by the Village EMA Coordinator. The Assistant Coordinators shall serve at the
pleasure of the Village EMA Coordinator. The Assistant Coordinators will be
limited to three positions.
   (B)   The Assistant Coordinators shall act under the direction of the
Coordinator in regards to daily and emergency functions.
   (C)   In the event of the absence of the Coordinator and the Deputy
Coordinator, the highest ranking Assistant Coordinator, in regards to seniority
of time served, shall be and act as Coordinator with direction of the Village
EMA.
(Prior Code, § 35.006) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2011-013, passed
6-20-2011)
§ 32.07 FUNCTIONS.
   The Village ESDA shall:
   (A)   Prepare and keep current a disaster emergency plan for the Village
EMA;
   (B)   Interrelate with business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and
volunteer organizations and community leaders in the development of such plan;
   (C)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
departments and offices and of the disaster chain of command;
   (D)   Cooperate with all other emergency management agencies;
   (E)   Establish, train and maintain such communications unit(s) as may be
deemed proper by the Village Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Establish, train and maintain such other volunteer EMA units as may be
deemed proper by the Coordinator or Village President to place the village in a
position to promptly and efficiently respond to disaster;
   (G)   Prepare, for issuance by the Village President or Board of Trustees,
resolutions, proclamations and regulations as necessary or appropriate in
coping with disaster;
   (H)   Cooperate with the federal, state and county government and any public
or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this chapter and in
implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response and
recovery; and
   (I)   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.007) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.08 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   (1)   A local disaster emergency may only be declared by the Village
President or his or her interim successor, as defined in the Emergency Interim
Executive Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/1. For purposes of such act, the interim
successors are hereby designated as follows:
         (a)   First, the Village Trustee that has been designated as Mayor pro
tem;
         (b)   Second, the Village Trustee with the next most seniority on the
Village Board; and
         (c)   Third, the Village Trustee with the third most seniority on the
Village Board.
      (2)   In case two Trustees have equal seniority on the Village Board, the
identity of the interim successor shall be decided by agreement or, if no
agreement can be reached, by lot.
   (B)   A local disaster emergency shall not continue for a period in excess
of seven days, except by or with consent of the Village Board of Trustees. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster
emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Such declaration(s) of a local state of emergency shall constitute a
declaration, of a local disaster pursuant to 20 ILCS 3305/11, the effect of
which is to activate the emergency operations plan of the village and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance under that plan or any other
applicable plan.
   (D)   Orders authorized. After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Village President may, in the interest of public safety and
welfare and to address issues threatened by the emergency, take any or all of
the following actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the disaster;
      (2)   A general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
village or to the village as a whole, as the Village President deems reasonable
and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night, as the
Village President deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare;
      (3)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
      (4)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, approve new
spending by the village during the existence of the local state of emergency;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer; or
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Duration. The declaration of a local state of emergency shall be
effective for the earlier of a period of up to seven days or upon the
adjournment of the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the
state of emergency is declared, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of
the Village President, or, his or her interim emergency successor, indicating
that the disaster no longer exists. A declaration may be continued or renewed
beyond seven days by or with the consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Notice. Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Village
Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the village, and shall cause
at least four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the
village: the village hall, the police station, the post office, and in the area
of any curfew.
   (G)   Violations. Any person violating any fo the executive orders issued
pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense against the village and
shall be punished as provided by the village code.
(Prior Code, § 35.008) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 20-003, passed 3-
26-2020)
§ 32.09 PURCHASING AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Board of Trustees may, on the recommendations of the Coordinator,
authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
(Prior Code, § 35.009) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.10 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village EMA shall,
before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the oath as set forth in
the State Emergency Management Act, which oath shall be filed with the
Coordinator of the county.
(Prior Code, § 35.010) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.11 TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The testing of the disaster warning devices including outdoor warning sirens
and Clearlake Township eLert system shall be held only on the first Tuesday of
each month at 10:00 a.m. unless severe weather is impacting the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.011) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.12 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal, state or county governments or any agency or officer
thereof or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the village
services, equipment, supplies, material or funds by way of gift or grant for
purpose of emergency management operations, the Village Board may authorize any
officer of the village to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials
or funds on behalf of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.012) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.13 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the village, the agency or any member thereof or any person acting
at their direction, engaged in any emergency management operation or disaster
activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with this chapter or
any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter is liable for the
death of or any injury to persons, or damage to property, as a result of such
activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of any person to
receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled under the State
Emergency Management Agency Act, under the Worker’s Compensation Act or the
Worker’s Occupational Diseases Act, or under any pension law, and this section
does not affect the right of any such person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
(Prior Code, § 35.013) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 32.14 COMPENSATION.
   The village may, by its annual appropriations ordinance, provide for the
payment of the salary of the Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator, Assistant
Coordinators and such other office staff and personnel as may be expressly
provided for in this chapter. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any
member of the agency from receiving compensation from the State Emergency
Management Agency under any provision of this agency.
(Prior Code, § 35.014) (Ord. 2010-037, passed 12-6-2010)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Resisting an officer
   
33.002   Impersonating police officer
   
33.003   Duty to aid police
   
33.004   Paid vacations for certain police officers
Establishment
   
33.015   Establishment
Police Chief
   
33.030   Application; qualifications
   
33.031   Duties
Deputy Chief of Police
   
33.035   Deputy Chief of Police created
   
33.036   Duties of the Deputy Chief of Police
Appointment of Police
   
33.045   Part-time employees
   
33.046   Probationary period
   
33.047   Special police
   
33.048   President to report special police appointments
Powers and Duties of Police
   
33.065   Powers of police
   
33.066   Neglect of duty by police officers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist any member of the police force in the discharge of
his or her duties or shall, in any way, interfere with or prevent or hinder him
or her in the discharge of his or her duty as such member, or shall offer or
endeavor to do so, or assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or attempt to escape from such custody, or attempt
to rescue any person in such custody.
(Prior Code, § 37.022) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.002 IMPERSONATING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person, not a member of the Police Department, shall impersonate a member
of the Police Department or maliciously or with intent to deceive, use or
imitate signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the Department, or wear
in public the uniform adopted as the police uniform.
(Prior Code, § 37.023) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.003 DUTY TO AID POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of all persons in the village, when called upon by the
Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department, to promptly aid and
assist him or her in the execution of his or her police duties.
(Prior Code, § 37.024) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
§ 33.004 PAID VACATIONS FOR CERTAIN POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers who were hired out of the Police Department collective
bargaining unit and into supervisory and exempt positions (Chief and Deputy
Chief) during calendar year 2016 or 2017 shall continue to have the same paid
vacation benefits as are and will be provided from time to time by the village
pursuant to the village’s current or future collective bargaining agreements
with the Police Department bargaining unit. This section shall not apply,
however, to future hires to exempt positions on or after January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 17-034, passed 12-18-2017)
ESTABLISHMENT
§ 33.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village which
shall be known as the Police Department, which shall consist of the Chief of
Police and such other officers and police officers as the Village Board shall
from time to time, by resolution, prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 37.001) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
POLICE CHIEF
§ 33.030 APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Office of Chief of Police who shall be the head
of the Police Department. He or she shall be hired by the President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board. No person shall be eligible to hold
the office of Chief of Police unless he or she has knowledge of matters of
public welfare, investigation of crime and criminals, crime prevention, traffic
control and regulation, laws of the state and ordinances of the village, and
enforcement of law, so as reasonably to qualify them in such matters. Any
applicant for Police Chief shall have at least five years of full-time service
as a police officer. The salary of the Police Chief shall be established from
time to time by the corporate authorities in a salary ordinance. The Chief
shall serve at the discretion of the Village Board. If the Chief was promoted
from any rank of full-time sworn officer of Riverton Police Department and,
subsequently removed from the position within 12 months of their promotion,
they shall revert to the rank previously held, without regard as to whether a
vacancy exists in that rank. After 12 months, return to their previous position
is at the discretion of the Village Board. If the Chief is hired from outside
the Riverton Police Department, they shall serve a 12-month probationary period
as prescribed in the Village Personnel Code. If the Chief is hired from outside
the Riverton Police Department, there is no option for them to demote to the
ranks of the police officers.
(Prior Code, § 37.003) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989; Ord. 20-24, passed 12-21-
2020)
§ 33.031 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duties of the Chief of Police to:
   (A)   Have the custody, care and control of the public property of the
Police Department, including all firearms and other equipment and the books and
records of the Department;
   (B)   Devote such time to the municipal affairs of the village as the
village shall prescribe;
   (C)   Preserve the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of the village;
   (D)   Execute and enforce all ordinances, police requirements and orders of
the Village Board and of the President;
   (E)   Protect the rights of persons and property;
   (F)   Provide proper police as needed at every fire;
   (G)   Cause to be enforced all ordinances of the village unless otherwise
provided;
   (H)   Take notice of all nuisances, and at all times render all necessary
assistance to other village officers, in the abatement thereof;
   (I)   Supervise and manage personnel that are assigned as police officers
within the police department and handle all personnel actions, including:
scheduling of personnel to ensure shift coverage, scheduling training,
scheduling vacations and leave time, disciplining police personnel as needed,
advertising vacancies, and assisting with the hiring of new officers. The Chief
should be aware of and abide by all terms and conditions outlined in Collective
Bargaining Agreement.
   (J)   Maintain open line of communication with Village President and Village
Board. Communicate all matters to Village President and Public Safety Committee
as directed.
   (K)   Aid the Fire Department by giving alarms in case of fire, and in
clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity of the fire so that
members of the Fire Department shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties;
   (L)   Study police problems and matters of public welfare and administration
as related to crime and law enforcement and make recommendations thereon to the
President, Police Standing Committee and Village Board; investigate, study and
recommend traffic regulations, routing and changes therein with a view to
improving traffic conditions and lessening congestion in the streets and public
places;
   (M)   Cause to be kept books or records showing in detail the work of the
Police Department. Such records shall show:
      (1)   The names of all persons arrested and the date of such arrest;
      (2)   The nature of the offense charged and whether accused was
imprisoned or released on bail;
      (3)   The disposition of the case;
      (4)   The amount of fine and, if paid, to whom; and
      (5)   A list of all property placed in charge of the Department.
      (6)   The name of the officer involved in the incident.
   (N)   To cause to be detailed a sufficient number of the police force to
make, from time to time and as often as may be necessary, a thorough and
systematic examination of the village, and to ascertain and report to the
proper authority for prosecution of all violations of this code or any
ordinance of the village. For this purpose, the Chief and officers of the
Police Department shall be permitted at all times to visit and enter into or
upon any building, lot or grounds within the jurisdiction of the village and to
make examination thereof.
   (O)   To plan and execute community policing events to promote the Riverton
Police Department in a positive light with the community residents. Maintain a
working rapport with businesses and citizens.
(Prior Code, § 37.004) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989; Ord. 20-024, passed 12-
21-2020)
DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 33.035 DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE CREATED.
   (A)   In accordance with 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4, the position of Deputy Chief of
Police is hereby created. The Deputy Chief of Police shall be recommended by
the Chief of Police and hired by the President with the advice and consent of
the Village Board. The Deputy Chief position shall be an exempt rank
immediately below that of Chief. The Deputy Chief shall have at least five
years of full-time services as a police officer. The Deputy Chief shall serve
at the discretion of the Village Board. If the Deputy Chief was promoted from
any rank of full-time sworn officer of Riverton Police Department and,
subsequently removed from the position within 12 months of their promotion,
they shall revert to the rank previously held, without regard as to whether a
vacancy exists in that rank. After 12 months, return to their previous position
is at the discretion of the Village Board. If the Deputy Chief is hired from
outside the Riverton Police Department, they shall serve a 12-month
Probationary Period as prescribed in the Village Personnel Code. If the Deputy
Chief is hired from outside the Riverton Police Department, there is no option
for them to demote to the ranks of the police officers.
   (B)   The salary of the Deputy Chief shall be established from time to time
by the corporate authorities in a salary ordinance.
(Ord. 17-001, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 20-024, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 33.036 DUTIES OF THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Deputy Chief of Police shall have the following duties and
responsibilities, which may be further detailed by the Chief of Police in a
general order:
   (A)   Assist with managing and supervising Sergeants and police officers in
accordance with the organization’s policies and applicable laws, including but
not limited to training employees; planning, assigning, and directing work;
appraising performance; recommending rewards and disciplinary actions;
disciplining personnel as needed; addressing complaints and resolving problems.
   (B)   Assuming command of the Police Department in the absence of the Chief.
   (C)   Assisting the Chief in the development, administration, coordination,
and implementation of departmental policies, procedures, programs, and
activities, and monitoring the Sergeant’s and police officer’s compliance
therewith;
   (D)   Representing the Police Chief, as necessary, at meetings, conferences
and other public functions;
   (E)   Assist with conducting background checks and interviewing candidates
for full and part-time positions;
   (F)   Other duties as assigned by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 17-001, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 20-024, passed 12-21-2020)
APPOINTMENT OF POLICE
§ 33.045 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the ordinance
codified in this section are found by the President and Board of Trustees to be
true and correct, and are hereby adopted as part of the ordinance codified in
this section.
   (B)   The following standards for hiring part-time police officers be and
hereby are established as follows.
      (1)   Part-time police officers shall be members of the regular Police
Department of the village, except for pension, deferred compensation and other
benefit purposes, as heretofore provided by ordinance. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or direct
full-time police officers of the Police Department. Part-time police officers
shall not be used as permanent replacements for permanent full-time police
officers.
      (2)   Part-time police officers shall be trained under the
Intergovernmental Law Enforcement Officers In-Service Training Act in
accordance with the procedures for part-time police officers established by the
State Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
      (3)   Part-time police officers shall be a minimum of 21 years of age.
      (4)   Part-time police officers must possess a valid high school diploma
or G.E.D. equivalent. Preference may be given to individuals with added
college, military or professional training.
      (5)   Part-time police officers must successfully complete a certified
State Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board 40 mandatory firearms
certification course prior to carrying a firearm in the performance of their
duties.
      (6)   Part-time officers must complete the 400-hour basic law enforcement
recruit training or its equivalent from another jurisdiction and have or be
entitled to receive a waiver from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board, if necessary.
      (7)   Part-time police officers must possess a valid state driver’s
license without restrictions relating to the ability to operate a motor vehicle
during any portions of a 24-hour day.
      (8)   Part-time officers shall also comply with any requirements set
forth in the rules and regulations for the Village Police Department, as
amended, and with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the village
pertaining to probationary periods for police officers.
      (9)   Reasonable accommodations to the foregoing standards, where
appropriate and required by applicable law, will be made for persons with
disabilities.
   (C)   The ordinance codified in this section shall amend any previous or
inconsistent provisions of any ordinance of the village in regards to hiring
standards of part-time police officers.
(Prior Code, § 37.008.1) (Ord. 97-021, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 33.046 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   The first 12-months’ service of a permanent employee candidate is a
probationary period during which there shall be no responsibility on the part
of the village for the continued employment of the new employee. Termination of
employment during this probationary period shall not be subject to challenge by
the employee. When the probationary period is completed, the permanent employee
candidate shall become a permanent employee and seniority will date back six
months from the date of completion of the probationary period.
(Prior Code, § 37.009) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
§ 33.047 SPECIAL POLICE.
   The President may, in time of peril, danger, riot or pestilence, or
apprehension thereof, and at all conflagrations, and during any public election
or celebration, or unusual congregation of people, appoint for a specified time
as many police officers as he or she may deem necessary and, during the term of
service, such special police officers shall possess all the power and
privileges and perform all the duties of regular police officers, and be
subject to all the rules and regulations governing the Police Department.
Special police officers shall not be considered employees of the village and
shall not be entitled to compensation or the benefits of village employees.
(Prior Code, § 37.010) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
§ 33.048 PRESIDENT TO REPORT SPECIAL POLICE APPOINTMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the President to report to the Village Board, at the
first regular meeting of the Board held after any such appointment, all
appointments of special police officers made by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 37.011) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE
§ 33.065 POWERS OF POLICE.
   Police officers shall have the power and authority, and it shall be their
duty in the village, and outside of the same when necessary and lawful, to
serve and execute warrants and other process for the apprehension and
commitment of persons charged with a violation of this code or any village
ordinance or any crime or misdemeanor, or offense against the laws of the
village or state, or held for examination or trial, or held in execution for
the commission of any crime or misdemeanor or violation of any law, or
ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 37.012) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
§ 33.066 NEGLECT OF DUTY BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   No member of the police force shall fail to perform any duty required of him
or her by the ordinances of the village, by the Chief of Police, or by the
President, or in the discharge of his or her official duties be guilty of any
fraud, extortion, oppression, favoritism or willful wrong or injustice. In
addition to other penalties, the violator may be removed from the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 37.013) (Ord. 89-009, passed 5-2-1989)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY
Section
Public Library
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Authority of Library Board of Trustees
   
34.03   Budget and financial matters
   
34.04   Library theft
   
34.05   Prohibited acts
Municipal Building Use
   
34.20   Authority to lease; processing of requests
   
34.21   Permitted activities
   
34.22   Fees and conditions
PUBLIC LIBRARY
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIBRARY. The public library of the village established pursuant to the
referendum held on 11-5-1996.
   LIBRARY BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the library, as defined in the State
Local Library Act, 75 ILCS 5/1-0.1 et seq.
   LIBRARY CARD. A card or plate issued by the library for purposes of
identifying the person to whom the library card was issued as authorized to
borrow library material, subject to all limitations and conditions imposed on
such borrowing by the library facility issuing such card.
   LIBRARY MATERIAL. Includes any book, plate, picture, photograph, engraving,
painting, sculpture, statue, artifact, drawing, map, newspaper, pamphlet,
broadside, magazine, manuscript, document, letter, microfilm, sound recording,
audio-visual material, magnetic or other tape, electronic data processing
record or other documentary, written or printed material regardless of physical
form or characteristics or any part thereof, belonging to or on loan to or
otherwise in the custody of a library.
   PREMISES OF THE LIBRARY. The interior of a building, structure or other
enclosure in which the library is located and in which the library keeps,
displays and makes available for inspection or borrowing library material.
(Prior Code, § 39.001) (Ord. 96-034, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.02 AUTHORITY OF LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall have control over the library, and shall
have all of the powers, functions and duties over the library and the conduct
of its business set forth in the State Local Library Act, 75 ILCS 5/1-0.1 et
seq.
      (2)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to add to or subtract
from those powers, duties and functions.
   (B)   (1)   The Village President shall appoint one or more Village Trustees
as Liaison to the Library Board.
      (2)   The Village President or the Liaison Trustee may instruct any
village department head or the Village Attorney to assist the Library Board in
the conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 39.002) (Ord. 96-034, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.03 BUDGET AND FINANCIAL MATTERS.
   (A)   The Treasurer of the village shall establish within the fund
accounting system of the village a special and segregated fund known as the
Library Fund, into which the Library Board shall deposit all moneys in its
possession. However, pursuant to 75 ILCS 5/4-7 of the Local Library Act, the
Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditure of all such moneys.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall assist the Library Board each year in the
preparation of its budget and the inclusion of the library’s budget in the
annual appropriation ordinance of the village as set forth in 75 ILCS 5/4-15 of
the Local Library Act.
(Prior Code, § 39.003) (Ord. 96-034, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.04 LIBRARY THEFT.
   A person commits the offense of library theft when he or she:
   (A)   Knowingly and intentionally removes any library material from the
premises of the library without authority to do so;
   (B)   Knowingly and intentionally conceals any library material upon his or
her person or among his or her belongings, while still in the premises of the
library and in such manner that the library material is not visible through
ordinary observation although there may be some notice of its presence, and
removes such library material beyond the last point in the premises of the
library at which library material may be borrowed in accordance with procedures
established by that library facility for the borrowing of library material;
   (C)   With the intent to deceive, borrows or attempts to borrow any library
material from the library by:
      (1)   Use of a library card issued to another without the other’s
consent;
      (2)   Use of a library card knowing that it is revoked, canceled or
expired; or
      (3)   Use of a library card knowing that it is falsely made, counterfeit
or materially altered.
   (D)   Borrows a library material pursuant to an agreement with or procedure
established by the library for the return of such library material and
willfully, without good cause, fails to return the library material so borrowed
in accordance with such agreement or procedure, and further, willfully, without
good cause, fails to return such library material within ten days after
receiving written notice by registered mail from the library demanding the
return of such library material. The library shall not send such notices before
a date 30 days after the due date for such materials.
(Prior Code, § 39.004) (Ord. 96-034, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Theft. No person shall commit theft of library materials.
   (B)   Mutilation of materials.
      (1)   No person shall commit mutilation of library materials.
      (2)   A person commits mutilation of library materials when he or she
knowingly tears, marks on, maliciously renders imperfect or otherwise damages
or destroys library materials.
(Prior Code, § 39.005) (Ord. 96-034, passed 12-2-1996)
MUNICIPAL BUILDING USE
§ 34.20 AUTHORITY TO LEASE; PROCESSING OF REQUESTS.
   (A)   The village hereby delegates to the President of the village and
Chairperson of the Building Committee the power to enter into leases of the
Municipal Building for periods of less than 72 hours each in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this subchapter. Leases or uses longer than 72
hours must be approved by a majority vote of the Village Board.
   (B)   When entering into a lease, the village representative shall use a
form approved from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Requests to lease the Municipal Building shall be processed in the
order received.
(Prior Code, § 41.001) (Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 34.21 PERMITTED ACTIVITIES.
   The Municipal Building may be leased only for social, religious, charitable
and civic functions. The Municipal Building may only be used for non-commercial
purposes. Sales of articles other than food and beverages incidental to the
purpose of the function are prohibited; provided, however, that, sales of
articles for fundraising for not-for-profit organizations is permitted.
Exceptions to this section must be approved by a majority vote of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 41.002) (Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 34.22 FEES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The lessee shall pay a rental fee set forth in division (D) below at
the time the village representative accepts the lease, together with a $150
damage/cleaning deposit. The rental fee is non-refundable unless the lease is
canceled by the lessee at least seven calendar days prior to the first day of
the lease.
   (B)   Each lease shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the lease
form, Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified in this subchapter, which
provisions are herein incorporated by reference.
   (C)   No lessee shall serve, sell, offer to sell, consume or permit the
consumption of alcoholic beverages on or about the premises.
   (D)   The schedule of fees, daily rate, for the rental of the Municipal
Building are as follows:
 
Damage/cleaning deposit                   $150
Funeral rate                              No charge, provided the decedent was
                                          a resident of the village
Non-resident
   Use of community room, kitchen, and $100
bathrooms
Resident
   Use of community room, kitchen, and $50
bathrooms
 
   (E)   The damage/cleaning deposit will only be returned if the rental space
has been cleaned after use and no damage is found. Damage to walls from tacks,
nails, or tape will be cause to not refund the deposit.
   (F)   In the event the Governor or the Director of the Illinois Department
of Public Health declares a public health emergency, all lessees must abide by
all directives issued by the state relating to crowd size, social distancing or
other public health measures which may be imposed. In addition, each lessee
shall pay to the village a non-refundable sanitation/disinfecting, fee of $50,
for any rental during the term of the public health emergency.
(Prior Code, § 41.003) (Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 18-029, passed 12-
17-2018; Ord. 20-021, passed 11-16-2020)
CHAPTER 35: VILLAGE POLICIES GENERALLY
Section
Contracts and Contractors
   
35.01   Competitive bidding required
   
35.02   Formal contract procedure
   
35.03   Preparation of plans
   
35.04   Notice inviting bids
   
35.05   Scope of notice
   
35.06   Bid deposits
   
35.07   Bid opening procedure
   
35.08   Rejection of bids
   
35.09   Bidders in default to the village
   
35.10   Award of contract
   
35.11   Failure to enter into contract; disability
   
35.12   Execution of contracts
   
35.13   Essential clauses
   
35.14   Open market procedure
   
35.15   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements
   
35.16   Emergency purchases
   
35.17   Cooperative purchasing
   
35.18   Expenditure authority
Freedom of Information Act
   
35.30   Definitions
   
35.31   Policy
   
35.32   Individual privacy protected
   
35.33   Public records available
   
35.34   Freedom of Information Act Officer
   
35.35   Requests to be in writing
   
35.36   Fees
   
35.37   Time limit for compliance with request
   
35.38   Extension of time limit (non-commercial purpose); notice
   
35.39   Unduly burdensome requests
   
35.40   Certain information exempt from inspection and copying
   
35.41   Notice of denial of request; request for review
   
35.42   Public access counselor; opinions
   
35.43   Granting of request; procedure for inspection
   
35.44   Written request not required for certain documents
   
35.45   Special provisions pertaining to certain law enforcement records
   
35.46   Dissemination of information about public bodies
   
35.47   List of categories of records
Responsible Bidding
   
35.60   Requirements
   
35.61   Failure to meet requirements
   
35.62   Rejection of bid
   
35.63   Debarment
Sexual Harassment
   
35.70   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
CONTRACTS AND CONTRACTORS
§ 35.01 COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases of and
contracts for supplies, materials and services shall, except as specifically
provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive bids.
(Prior Code, § 33.005) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.02 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases, orders or
contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, except as
otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $5,000,
shall be purchased from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of
the Trustees then holding office.
(Prior Code, § 33.006) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.03 PREPARATION OF PLANS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Engineer to prepare a plan or profile of
the proposed work or public improvement, ordered by the Trustees, with
specifications for the construction of the same, which shall be kept on file in
his or her office, and be open to the inspection of village officers and other
persons interested therein.
(Prior Code, § 33.007) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.04 NOTICE INVITING BIDS.
   (A)   Notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a newspaper
with general circulation within the village. The village shall also advertise
all pending work or purchases by posting a notice in the Village Hall. The
President of the Board of Trustees is authorized to prepare the notice and to
advertise the same as soon as the special tax or special assessment for any
such work or public improvement shall have been finally confirmed as provided
by law, and sooner if deemed expedient by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Such notice shall be published and posted for at least ten days before
the date fixed for the opening of such proposals.
(Prior Code, § 33.008) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.05 SCOPE OF NOTICE.
   The notice required herein shall include a general description of the work
to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall state where
specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening bids.
(Prior Code, § 33.009) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.06 BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract by
the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part to enter into
a contract within ten days after the award.
(Prior Code, § 33.010) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.07 BID OPENING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notice.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 33.011) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.08 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The village shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids
when the best interests of the village will be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 33.012) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.09 BIDDERS IN DEFAULT TO THE VILLAGE.
   The village shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on
the payment of taxes, licenses or other moneys due the village.
(Prior Code, § 33.013) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.10 AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this section.
   (B)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of
Trustees shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
      (7)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract; and
      (9)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (C)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 33.014) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.11 FAILURE TO ENTER INTO CONTRACT; DISABILITY.
   A successful bidder who shall fail to enter into a contract within ten days
after the award or who shall fail to fulfill any contract shall forfeit any
required bid deposits and shall not be permitted to bid again for any village
work, unless the Board of Trustees shall, for good cause shown, remove such
disability. Such forfeiture and disability shall be in addition to any other
remedies available to the village.
(Prior Code, § 33.015) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.12 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
   All such contracts and bonds shall run to and be in the name of the village,
and shall be drawn by or approved by the Village Attorney and before the same
shall be in force, shall be signed by the President and countersigned, and the
corporate seal of the village shall be affixed by the Village Clerk. Such
contracts shall be executed in duplicate, one original copy of which shall be
given to the contractor, and the other filed and kept in the office of the
Village Clerk, who shall furnish copies thereof when required.
(Prior Code, § 33.016) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.13 ESSENTIAL CLAUSES.
   (A)   All contracts.
      (1)   Each contract shall contain a clause, in substance to the effect
that it is made subject to the ordinances of the village and to the power of
the President, Village Engineer or other proper village officer to suspend the
work, for a failure on the part of the contractor to execute the same according
to the terms thereof, but that such suspension shall not affect any other of
the remedies available for non-performance of the contract.
      (2)   Each contract shall contain a clause, in substance, to the effect
that no liability shall attach to the village for any damages resulting from
any work or public improvement or from the negligence of the contractor, his or
her agents, employees or workers.
      (3)   Each contract shall contain a clause, in substance to the effect
that the contractor shall be liable for any damages resulting from any work or
public improvement or from the carelessness of the contractor, his or her
agents, employees or workers.
   (B)   Contractors’ obligations. All contracts for any work or improvement
which requires the digging up, use of occupancy of any street, alley, highway
or public ground of the village, shall contain a clause, in substance to the
effect requiring the contractor, during the nighttime, to install and maintain
such barriers and lights as will effectually permit the occurrence of an
accident in consequence of such digging up, use or occupancy.
   (C)   Contracts paid from special taxes or assessments. All contracts in
which the contractor agrees to be paid from special taxes or special
assessments shall contain a clause, in substance to the effect that the
contractor shall have no claim or lien upon the village, in any event, except
from the collection of the special taxes or assessments levied for the work
contracted, and that no liability shall attach to the village by reason of
entering into any such contract, except for the payment to such contractor of
such specified moneys received by the village.
   (D)   Surplus materials. All contracts for the street and alley improvements
shall contain a clause, in substance to the effect that the village shall
reserve the disposition of all surplus earth removed in excavations on such
streets or alleys, and that no contractor or subcontractor shall in any manner
sell or dispose of any such surplus earth.
(Prior Code, § 33.017) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.14 OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies, materials and services of less than the
estimated value of $5,000 shall be made in the open market, without newspaper
advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this section
for the award of formal contracts.
(Prior Code, § 33.018) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.15 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES EXEMPT FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   All contracts for professional services including, but not limited to,
lawyers, engineers, real estate appraisers and architects and any other
profession whose ethical code involved prohibits and discourages involvement in
normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by the village without observing
the bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal
contracts.
(Prior Code, § 33.019) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.16 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency which requires immediate work or purchase
of supplies, materials or services, the Board of Trustees shall be empowered to
secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, the lowest obtainable
price, any work, supplies, materials or services regardless of the amount of
the expenditure.
(Prior Code, § 33.020) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.17 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The village shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans where the best interests of the village would
be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 33.021) (Ord. 88-007, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 35.18 EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Expenditure authority for the corporate authorities and various
employees of the village shall be as follows.
      (1)   Corporate authorities. Any Trustee and the Village President are
authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the village and to purchase goods and
services on behalf of the village where:
         (a)   The value of any single transaction is less than $2,500; and
         (b)   The transaction has been approved by a majority of the
appropriate Board committee having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
contract, either at a committee meeting, or in cases where a committee meeting
is impracticable and the need for immediate action apparent, by polling the
members of the committee.
      (2)   Supervisors. Supervisors (the Chief of Police, the Superintendent
of Public Works and the Office Manager) are authorized to enter into contracts
on behalf of the village or to purchase goods and services on behalf of the
village where:
         (a)   The value of a single transaction does not exceed $500; and
         (b)   It is not practicable to secure the approval of the appropriate
committee prior to the transaction.
      (3)   Chief Mechanic. The Chief Mechanic is authorized to enter into
contracts on behalf of the village or to purchase goods and services on behalf
of the village where:
         (a)   The value of a single transaction does not exceed $500; and
         (b)   The transaction relates to repair or maintenance of village
equipment.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the entering
into a contract or making a purchase of goods and services where the
transaction is not supported by a prior appropriation or is prohibited by laws
relating to conflicts of interest, expenditures of public funds for private
purposes, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 33.022) (Ord. 97-025, passed 10-6-1997)
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
§ 35.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The use of any part of a public record or records, or
information derived from public records, in any form for sale, resale or
solicitation or advertisement for sales or services. For purposes of this
definition, requests made by news media and non-profit, scientific or academic
organizations shall not be considered to be made for a COMMERCIAL PURPOSE when
the principal purpose of the request is:
      (1)   To access and disseminate information concerning news and current
or passing events;
      (2)   For articles of opinion or features of interest to the public; or
      (3)   For the purpose of academic, scientific or public research or
education.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device or means now known or hereafter
developed and available to the village.
   EXEMPT MATERIALS. Materials which are exempt from disclosure pursuant to 5
ILCS 140/7 and 140/7.5 of the Freedom of Information Act.
   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT or FOIA. The Illinois Freedom of Information Act,
5 ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PRIVATE INFORMATION. Unique identifiers, including a person’s Social
Security number, driver’s license number, employee identification number,
biometric identifiers, personal financial information, passwords or other
access codes, medical records, home or personal telephone numbers and personal
email addresses. PRIVATE INFORMATION also includes home address and personal
license plates, except as otherwise provided by law or when compiled without
possibility of attribution to any person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR. The public access counselor is a State Attorney
General Office appointee responsible for various duties described in § 9.5 of
the State Freedom of Information Act and § 7 of the Attorney General Act (15
ILCS 205/7). Contact information for the PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR is as follows:
   Public Access Bureau
   500 S. 2nd Street
   Springfield, Illinois 62706
   217-558-0486
   publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
   PUBLIC RECORD.
      (1)   All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memoranda, books,
papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings, electronic
data processing records, electronic communications, recorded information and
all other documentary materials pertaining to the transaction of public
business, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having been prepared
by or for, or having been or being used by, received by, in the possession of
or under the control of the village.
      (2)   PUBLIC RECORD also includes the following:
         (a)   All records relating to the obligation, receipt and use of
public funds;
         (b)   Certified payroll records submitted to the village under § 5(a)
(2) of the Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/5) are PUBLIC RECORDS; except that
contractors’ employees’ addresses, telephone numbers and Social Security
numbers must be redacted by the village prior to disclosure;
         (c)   Arrest reports (except for arrests of persons under the age of
21 subject to the Juvenile Court Act of 1987); and (See § 35.45 of this chapter
for further provisions with respect to arrest reports.)
         (d)   Criminal history records (except for arrests of persons under
the age of 21 subject to the Juvenile Court Act of 1987), including, but not
limited to:
            1.   Court records that are public;
            2.   Records that are otherwise available under state or local law;
and
            3.   Records in which the requesting party is the individual
identified, except as provided under § 7(1)(d)(vi) (5 ILCS 140/7) of the
Freedom of Information Act.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 40.001) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.31 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the village that all persons are
entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of the village.
The official acts and policies of the public officials and public employees of
the village shall be consistent with the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.002) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.32 INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY PROTECTED.
   This subchapter is not intended to be used to violate individual privacy or
to disrupt the duly undertaken work of the village.
(Prior Code, § 40.003) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.33 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1.1
et seq.
(Prior Code, § 40.004) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.34 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER.
   (A)   The village shall designate one or more officials or employees to act
as its Freedom of Information Act Officer (“FOIA Officer”). The Chief of Police
is hereby designated as Deputy FOIA Officer for FOIA requests involving the
Police Department and the Village Attorney is designated as Deputy FOIA Officer
in the place and stead of the FOIA Officer if the FOIA Officer is unavailable.
Except in instances when records are furnished immediately, the FOIA Officer,
or designee, shall receive requests submitted to the village under this
subchapter and issue responses accordingly. All village officers and employees
who receive a FOIA request from any source whatsoever shall notify the FOIA
Officer within one working day. If the FOIA Officer is not available, the
Village Attorney shall be notified.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the village receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   The Village FOIA Officer and deputies shall, by 7-1-2010, successfully
complete an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the public access
counselor and thereafter successfully complete an annual training program.
Thereafter, whenever a new FOIA Officer is designated by the village, that
person shall successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within 30
days after assuming the position. Successful completion of the required
training curriculum within the periods provided shall be a prerequisite to
continue serving as a FOIA Officer.
(Prior Code, § 40.005) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.35 REQUESTS TO BE IN WRITING.
   (A)   All requests for inspection or copying of public records shall be in
writing and shall be addressed to the FOIA Officer.
   (B)   The requestor shall include the following information in any request
for public records:
      (1)   The requestor’s full name, mailing address and telephone number at
which the requestor can be reached during normal business hours;
      (2)   A description of the records sought, as specific as possible;
      (3)   An indication of whether the records are requested for a commercial
purpose and whether the requestor seeks a fee waiver; and
      (4)   A statement as to whether the request is for inspection, copying,
or both.
   (C)   The FOIA Officer shall make available a form for use by requestors;
however, no request shall be denied for failure to use the form.
   (D)   All requests for inspection and copying received by the village shall
immediately be forwarded to its FOIA Officer or designee.
(Prior Code, § 40.006) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.36 FEES.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes and shall charge fees reasonably
calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing and certifying public
records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment of the village to copy
records. Such fees exclude the costs of any search for and review of the
record, and shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction and certification,
unless otherwise provided by state statute. The charge for copying shall be
$0.10 per page for photocopies, $0.05 per page for computer printouts and $2.50
per audio tape, CD or DVD. No fees shall be charged for the first 50 pages of
black and white, letter or legal sized copies requested by a requestor. If the
village provides copies in color or in a size other than letter or legal, it
shall charge the actual cost for reproducing the records. In calculating the
actual cost for reproducing records or for the use of the equipment of the
village to reproduce the records, the village shall not include the costs of
any search for and review of the records or other personnel costs associated
with reproducing the records. The cost for certifying a record shall be $1.
   (B)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge
where the village determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest because furnishing information can be considered as primarily
benefitting the general public. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public
interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate
information regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal rights of the
general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial
benefit. For purposes of this division (B), commercial benefit shall not apply
to requests made by news media when the principal purpose of the request is to
access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety and welfare or
the legal rights of the general public. In setting the amount of the waiver or
reduction, the village may take into consideration the amount of materials
requested and the cost of copying them.
(Prior Code, § 40.007) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.37 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUEST.
   (A)   Compliance with request (non-commercial purpose). The village shall
either comply with or deny a request for public records within five business
days after its receipt. If the village fails to respond to a request within the
requisite periods in this section, but thereafter provides the requester with
copies of the requested public records it may not impose a fee for such copies.
If the village fails to respond to a request received it may not treat the
request as unduly burdensome under §
35.39 of this chapter. Denials shall be in writing and in accordance with §
35.41 of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance with request (commercial purpose). The village shall
respond to a request for records to be used for a commercial purpose within 21
working days after receipt. The response shall:
      (1)   Provide to the requestor an estimate of the time required by the
village to provide the records requested and an estimate of the fees to be
charged, which the village may require the person to pay in full before copying
the requested documents;
      (2)   Deny the request pursuant to one or more of the exemptions set out
in this subchapter;
      (3)   Notify the requestor that the request is unduly burdensome and
extend an opportunity to the requestor to attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions; or
      (4)   Provide the records requested.
   (C)   Compliance. Unless the records are exempt from disclosure, the village
shall comply with a request within a reasonable period considering the size and
complexity of the request, and giving priority to records requested for non-
commercial purposes. No person shall knowingly obtain a public record for a
commercial purpose without disclosing that it is for a commercial purpose, if
requested to do so by the village.
(Prior Code, § 40.008) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.38 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT (NON-COMMERCIAL PURPOSE); NOTICE.
   (A)   The time limit prescribed in §
35.37(A) of this chapter may be extended in each case for not more than five
additional business days from the original due date for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations other than the office having charge of the requested records;
      (2)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
      (3)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
      (4)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them;
      (5)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under the terms of the State Freedom of Information
Act or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
      (6)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the village
within the time limits prescribed by the foregoing paragraph without unduly
burdening or interfering with the operations of the village; and/or
      (7)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all
practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components of
a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
   (B)   The person making a request and the village may agree in writing to
extend the time for compliance for a period to be determined by the parties. If
the requestor and the village agree to extend the period for compliance, a
failure by the village to comply with any previous deadlines shall not be
treated as a denial of the request for the records.
   (C)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
FOIA Officer shall notify the person making the request, by letter, within the
five business days after receipt of the request, of the reasons for the delay
and the date by which the records will be made available or denial will be
forthcoming. In no instance may the delay in processing last longer than five
business days. A failure to render a decision within the time permitted for
extension shall be considered a denial of the request.
   (D)   If the village fails to respond to a request within the time permitted
for extension but thereafter provides the requestor with copies of the
requested public records, the village may not impose a fee for those copies. If
the village requests an extension and subsequently fails to respond to the
request, it may not treat the request as unduly burdensome under §
35.39 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.009) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.39 UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUESTS.
   (A)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall be
complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome for
the village, there is no method of narrowing the request, and the burden on the
village strongly outweighs the public interest in the information. Before
invoking this exemption, the village shall extend to the person making the
request an opportunity to confer with it in an attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions. If the village responds to a categorical request by
stating that compliance would unduly burden its operation and the conditions
described above are met, it shall do so in a writing signed by the FOIA Officer
specifying the reasons why it would be unduly burdensome and the extent to
which compliance will so burden the operation of the village. Such a response
shall be treated as a denial of the request for information.
   (B)   Repeated requests for the same public records by the same person shall
be deemed unduly burdensome. Repeated requests from the same person for the
same records that are unchanged or identical to records previously provided or
properly denied under this subchapter shall be deemed unduly burdensome.
(Prior Code, § 40.010) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.40 CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION AND COPYING.
   (A)   Information exempted by§§ 7 and 7.5 of the Freedom of Information Act
shall be exempt from inspection and copying. If a record contains both exempt
and non-exempt information, the village may elect to redact the information
that is exempt and make the remainder of the record available for inspection
and copying.
   (B)   Moreover, information described in the definition for “public record”
may be withheld if it is determined that disclosure would:
      (1)   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated law
enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement or
correctional personnel or any other person; or
      (3)   Compromise the security of any correctional facility.
(Prior Code, § 40.011) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.41 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST; REQUEST FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The FOIA Officer, when denying a request for public record, shall
notify the requestor, by letter, of the decision to deny the information, the
reason for the denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application
of any exemption claimed, and the names and titles or positions of each person
responsible for the denial.
   (B)   Each notice of denial by the FOIA Officer shall inform the person of
the right to review by the public access counselor and provide the address and
phone number for the public access counselor.
   (C)   Each notice of denial shall also inform such person of his or her
right to judicial review in accordance with § 11 of the Freedom of Information
Act.
   (D)   When a request is denied on the grounds that the records are exempt
under the provisions of this subchapter, the notice of denial shall specify the
exemption claimed to authorize the denial and briefly explain how the exemption
applies to the specified records withheld.
   (E)   Copies of all notices of denials shall be retained by the village in a
single central office file that is open to the public and indexed according to
the type of exemption asserted and, to the extent feasible, according to the
types of records requested.
   (F)   Any person making a request for public records shall be deemed to have
exhausted his or her administrative remedies with respect to that request if
the village fails to act within the time periods provided in §§
35.37 and
35.38 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.012) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.42 PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR; OPINIONS.
   (A)   A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record is denied by
the village may file a request for review with the public access counselor
established in the office of the Attorney General not later than 60 days after
the date of the final denial. The request for review must be in writing, signed
by the requester, and include:
      (1)   A copy of the request for access to records; and
      (2)   Any responses from the public body.
   (B)   If the village receives a request for records, and asserts that the
records are exempt under general exemptions (1)(C) or (1)(F), it shall, within
the time periods provided for responding to a request, provide written notice
to the requester and the public access counselor of its intent to deny the
request in whole or in part. The notice shall include:
      (1)   A copy of the request for access to records;
      (2)   The proposed response from the public body; and
      (3)   A detailed summary of the public body’s basis for asserting the
exemption.
   (C)   In accordance with FOIA, upon receipt of a notice of intent to deny
from the village, the public access counselor determines whether further
inquiry is warranted. Within five working days after receipt of the notice of
intent to deny, the public access counselor notifies the village and the
requester whether further inquiry is warranted. If the public access counselor
determines that further inquiry is warranted, the procedures set out in this
section regarding the review of denials, including the production of documents,
shall also be applicable to the inquiry and resolution of a notice of intent to
deny from the village. Times for response or compliance by the village under §§
35.37 and
35.38 of this chapter shall be tolled until the public access counselor
concludes his or her inquiry.
   (D)   In accordance with FOIA, upon receipt of a request for review, the
public access counselor determines whether further action is warranted. If the
public access counselor determines that the alleged violation is unfounded, he
or she so advises the requester and the village and no further action shall be
undertaken. In all other cases, the public access counselor forwards a copy of
the request for review to the village within seven working days after receipt
and specifies the records or other documents that the village shall furnish to
facilitate the review. Within seven working days after receipt of the request
for review, the FOIA Officer shall provide copies of records requested and
shall otherwise fully cooperate with the public access counselor. If the FOIA
Officer fails to furnish specified records pursuant to this section, or if
otherwise necessary, the Attorney General may issue a subpoena to any person or
public body having knowledge of or records pertaining to a request for review
of a denial of access to records under the Freedom of Information Act. By
statute, to the extent that records or documents produced by the village
contain information that is claimed to be exempt from disclosure pursuant to §
7 of the Freedom of Information Act, the public access counselor does not
further disclose that information.
   (E)   In accordance with FOIA, within seven working days after it receives a
copy of a request for review and request for production of records from the
public access counselor, the FOIA Officer may, but is not required to, answer
the allegations of the request for review. The answer may take the form of a
letter, brief or memorandum. The public access counselor forwards a copy of the
answer to the person submitting the request for review, with any alleged
confidential information to which the request pertains redacted from the copy.
The requester may, but is not required to, respond in writing to the answer
within seven working days and shall provide a copy of the response to the
village. In addition to the request for review, and the answer and the response
thereto, if any, a requester or the village may furnish affidavits or records
concerning any matter germane to the review.
   (F)   (1)   In accordance with FOIA, unless the public access counselor
extends the time by no more than 21 business days by sending written notice to
the requester and the village that includes a statement of the reasons for the
extension in the notice, or decides to address the matter without the issuance
of a binding opinion, the Attorney General examines the issues and the records,
makes findings of fact and conclusions of law, and issues to the requester and
the village an opinion in response to the request for review within 60 days
after its receipt. The opinion is binding upon both the requester and the
village, subject to administrative review under § 11.5 of the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/11.5).
      (2)   Upon receipt of a binding opinion concluding that a violation of
FOIA has occurred, the FOIA Officer shall either take necessary action
immediately to comply with the directive of the opinion or shall initiate
administrative review under § 11.5 of FOIA. If the opinion concludes that no
violation of FOIA has occurred, the requester may initiate administrative
review under § 11.5 of FOIA. If the village discloses records in accordance
with an opinion of the Attorney General, it is immune from all liabilities by
reason thereof and shall not be liable for penalties under FOIA.
   (G)   (1)   In accordance with FOIA, the Attorney General may also issue
advisory opinions to the village regarding compliance with FOIA. A review may
be initiated upon receipt of a written request from the Village Mayor or the
Village Attorney, which shall contain sufficient accurate facts from which a
determination can be made. The public access counselor may request additional
information from the village in order to assist in the review.
      (2)   If the village relies in good faith on an advisory opinion of the
Attorney General in responding to a request, it is not liable for penalties
under FOIA, so long as the facts upon which the opinion is based have been
fully and fairly disclosed to the public access counselor.
(Prior Code, § 40.013) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.43 GRANTING OF REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION.
   When a freedom of information request is granted, the documents will be made
available for inspection at the Village Hall during regular business hours.
Copies shall be made upon request as set forth in §
35.36 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.014) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.44 WRITTEN REQUEST NOT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The following documents shall be made available for inspection and
copying without a written request; however, the requestor shall contact the
FOIA Officer or designee in advance to set a mutually convenient time.
   (B)   These documents, if copied, shall be subject to the copying fee set
forth in §
35.36 of this chapter:
      (1)   Ordinances and written resolutions;
      (2)   The journal of the Board of Trustees, not including executive
session minutes; and
      (3)   Any Personnel Code, Building Code, other technical code or any
other regulation of the village adopted by the village, whether by ordinance,
resolution or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 40.015) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.45 SPECIAL PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDS.
   The following chronologically maintained arrest and criminal history
information maintained by the Village Police Department shall be furnished as
soon as practical, but in no event later than 72 hours after the arrest,
notwithstanding the time limits otherwise provided for in §
35.37 of this chapter:
   (A)   Information that identifies the individual, including the name, age,
address and photograph, when and if available;
   (B)   Information detailing any charges relating to the arrest;
   (C)   The time and location of the arrest;
   (D)   The name of the investigating or arresting law enforcement agency;
   (E)   If the individual is incarcerated, the amount of any bail or bond; and
   (F)   If the individual is incarcerated, the time and date that the
individual was received into, discharged from or transferred from the Village
Police Department’s custody.
(Prior Code, § 40.016) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.46 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODIES.
   (A)   The village shall prominently display at the Village Hall, make
available for inspection and copying without charge, and shall send through the
mail if requested, each of the following:
      (1)   A brief description of itself, which will include, but not be
limited to, a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its
functional subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number
and location of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full-
and part-time employees and the identification and membership of any board,
commission, committee or council which operates in an advisory capacity
relative to the operation of the village, or which exercises control over its
policies or procedures, or to which the village is required to report and be
answerable for its operations; and
      (2)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating for the FOIA Officer or
officers, the address where requests for public records should be directed and
any fees allowable under §
35.36 of this chapter.
   (B)   The village shall also post this information on its website, if one is
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 40.017) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 35.47 LIST OF CATEGORIES OF RECORDS.
   As to public records prepared or received after the effective date of this
subchapter, the FOIA Officer shall maintain and make available for inspection
and copying a reasonably current list of all types or categories of records
under its control. The list shall be reasonably detailed in order to aid
persons in obtaining access to public records pursuant to this subchapter. The
FOIA Officer shall furnish upon request a description of the manner in which
public records stored by means of electronic data processing may be obtained in
a form comprehensible to persons lacking knowledge of computer language or
printout format.
(Prior Code, § 40.018) (Ord. 2010-001, passed 1-4-2010)
RESPONSIBLE BIDDING
§ 35.60 REQUIREMENTS.
   All specifications for any contract to be let for bid by the village for the
construction or substantial renovation of any building, parking lot, utility
infrastructure or other capital project, or for the provision of services
directly to the residents of the village, shall include a requirement that any
person, firm, corporation or other entity submitting a bid shall include a
complete, accurate and truthful listing and description of all decisions,
determinations, judgements or other findings within the past two years of any
violation of state or federal laws which protect the health, safety or welfare
of workers, including, but not limited to, OSHA, FMLA, FLSA, ADA, ADEA, NLRA,
the Federal Civil Rights Act, the State Human Rights Act, the State Wage and
Hour Law and the Prevailing Wage Act, against it or any entity with whom it is
submitting the bid, including joint venturers and partners, and also including
parent and subsidiary corporations or entities, and shall further include
documentation that such bidder or its employees are participants in at least
one apprenticeship and training program approved by and registered with the
U.S. Department of Labor’s Board of Apprenticeship and Training. The village
may waive the apprenticeship requirement if the bidder is in an industry where
no such program is available. If the bidder does not have any decisions,
determinations, judgements or other findings against it as aforesaid, it shall
include a statement to that effect with its bid.
(Prior Code, § 56.001) (Ord. 2009-004, passed 2-16-2009)
§ 35.61 FAILURE TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
   Any bidder who willfully fails or refuses to include the information
required in §
35.60 of this chapter, or whose report is substantially incomplete, inaccurate
or untruthful, shall be disqualified and its bid rejected.
(Prior Code, § 56.002) (Ord. 2009-004, passed 2-16-2009)
§ 35.62 REJECTION OF BID.
   The village may reject any bid and disqualify any bidder whose report, or
subsequent inquiry into the matters contained in such report, reveals any of
the following:
   (A)   There has been a finding, determination or judgement by an agency of
the state or federal government charged with the responsibility of enforcing
laws and regulations which protect the health, safety or welfare of workers, as
enumerated above, or otherwise, that the bidder has violated such a statute or
regulation, and that such violation was:
      (1)   Found to have been part of a pattern of similar violations;
      (2)   One of three or more similar violations committed within the two
years immediately preceding the submission of the bid;
      (3)   Classified by an agency of the state or federal government as
serious;
      (4)   One which threatened the health or safety of the workers employed
by the bidder;
      (5)   One resulting in the payment of back wages and benefits of $10,000
or more; or
      (6)   One that resulted or could have resulted in the debarment of the
bidder from contracting with the state or federal government, or any agency
thereof.
   (B)   The bidder and its employees do not actively participate in
apprenticeship and training program as set forth in §
35.60 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.003) (Ord. 2009-004, passed 2-16-2009)
§ 35.63 DEBARMENT.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity seeking to submit bids for any
project of, or for the provision of services to the residents of the village,
as herein described, which has been disqualified or had its bids rejected by
the village pursuant to the ordinance codified in this subchapter on three or
more occasions within the two years immediately preceding the submission of the
bid which is then currently under consideration, shall be debarred from
submitting further bids for village projects for a period of one year following
the rejection of the bid then currently being considered by the village.
(Prior Code, § 56.004) (Ord. 2009-004, passed 2-16-2009)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 35.70 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the village to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee, or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees, and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment.
      (1)   This policy adopts the definition of SEXUAL HARASSMENT as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes the
following.
         (a)   Verbal. Verbal sexual harassment includes, but is not limited
to, sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor and jokes about sex,
anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions, threats, repeated
requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even outside of their
presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal. Non-verbal sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to, suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering, obscene
gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls," "smacking," or
"kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Visual sexual harassment includes, but is not limited
to, posters, signs, pin-ups, or slogans of a sexual nature, viewing
pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical. Physical sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to, touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing the
body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault
         (e)   Textual/electronic. Textual/electronic sexual harassment
includes, but is not limited to, "sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal, if subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, the Director of Human Resources, an
Ethics Officer, the City Manager or Administrator, or the Chief Executive
Officer of the municipality.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
      (3)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time, and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos, and telephone
messages.
      (4)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee, or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to, or testimony before,
any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs tn
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency, or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it
is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people, to
conspire to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 300 days of the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks, and/
or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the municipality, and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant
to local ordinance, state law, or federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the municlpailty shall be separate
and distinct from any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks, and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a
state's attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous, or bad faith allegation.
   (G)   This policy was drafted using the Illinois Department of Human Rights
Sexual Harassment Model Policy and has been modified to conform to Public Act
100-0554.
   (H)   The provisions of this policy will apply only insofar as they do not
conflict with any state or federal law.
(Ord. 18-016, passed 11-5-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
      
55.   WELLS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Uniform Delinquent Utility Users Policy and Procedures
   
50.001   “Utility” defined
   
50.002   Liability for payment of all charges
   
50.003   Bills due when; penalty for late payment
   
50.004   Delinquent bills
   
50.005   Reconnections
   
50.006   Delinquent policy for level pay customers
   
50.007   Payment plans
   
50.008   Deposit policy for delinquent customers
   
50.009   Termination involving master metered apartment buildings
   
50.010   Dispute resolution procedure
   
50.011   Bad checks
   
50.012   Lien
   
50.013   Collection actions
Extraterritorial Utility Services
   
50.025   Policy
   
50.026   Exemptions
   
50.027   Applicability
   
50.028   Annexation petitions; village to bear costs
   
50.029   No obligation to institute service
Uniform Policy Regarding Utility Billing Rebates and Credits
   
50.040   Time period; limit
   
50.041   Cash rebate; credit
   
50.042   Funds to which credits and rebates are applied
Utility Rates and Tap Charges
   
50.055   General
   
50.056   Definitions
   
50.057   Electric rates and charges
   
50.058   Electric system tap fees
   
50.059   Water and sewer rates and charges
   
50.060   Water and sewer system tap fees
   
50.061   Gas system rates
   
50.062   Gas system tap fees
   
50.063   Special rates
   
50.064   Temporary services
   
50.065   Additional tap fee and utility update regulations
   
50.066   Regulations for customer-initiated and emergency disconnections
   
50.067   Additional regulations regarding rates
   
50.068   Charges for use of village equipment
   
50.069   Utility deposits
   
50.070   Economic incentives for new commercial projects
 
   
50.999   Penalty
UNIFORM DELINQUENT UTILITY USERS POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.001 “UTILITY” DEFINED.
   As used in this title, UTILITY refers to the village water system, sewer
system, gas system and electric system, as well as any other utility which may
hereafter be acquired or developed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 50C.001) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 50.002 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF ALL CHARGES.
   (A)   The services of each village utility shall be deemed to be furnished
to the owner of the premises and to the occupant thereof and to the user of the
services. The owner and the occupant and the user shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of all charges for such services. Such
services are furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   All applicants for service shall complete an application in a form
prescribed by the village. In the case of residential rental property, the
application shall contain a place for the landlord to co-sign. As set forth in
§
50.069 of this code, the amount of the deposit may differ depending on whether
the landlord cosigns the application. The failure of a landlord to cosign a
tenant’s application does not absolve the landlord from joint and several
liability with the tenant, or insulate the property served from imposition of a
lien for nonpayment as set forth in § 50.12 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50C.002) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-
4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.003 BILLS DUE WHEN; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Bills for utility services shall be rendered on or about the first business
day of each month. All bills shall be paid on or before the seventeenth day of
each month. If payment is not received by 8:00 a.m. on the first business day
following the seventeenth of each month, the bill is considered late and a
penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto.
(Prior Code, § 50C.003) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 2009-012, passed
5-18-2009; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.004 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Non-residential customers.
      (1)   (a)   Non-residential utility customers that do not pay the bill in
full, including the late fee, by the due date set forth in §
50.003, will be considered delinquent and will be sent a delinquency letter
specified by the village in the Customer Utility Policy and Procedure Manual.
This letter will be mailed on or about the first day of the following month.
Delinquent customers will have until 8:00 a.m. on the tenth day of the month
to:
            1.   Pay the bill; or
            2.   Resolve the matter in accordance with the dispute resolution
procedure in §
50.010 of this chapter.
      (b)   If the customer fails to meet one of these requirements by the
deadline stated, the utilities may be disconnected without further notice.
(Prior Code, § 50C.004)
   (B)   Residential customers.
      (1)   (a)   Residential utility customers that do not pay the bill in
full, including the late fee, by close of business on the due date set forth in
§
50.003, will be considered delinquent and will be sent a delinquency letter
substantially in the form specified by the village in the Customer Utility
Policy and Procedure Manual. This letter will be mailed on or about the first
day of the following month, with a copy to the landowner, if the customer is a
tenant. Delinquent customers will have until 8:00 a.m. on the tenth of the
month to:
            1.   Pay the bill; or
            2.   Resolve the matter in accordance with the dispute resolution
procedure §
50.010 of this chapter.
         (b)   If the customer fails to meet one of the requirements by the
deadline stated, the utilities may be disconnected without further notice.
   (C)   Disconnection of residential gas and electric services will not occur
under weather conditions as provided by state law—that is, when the National
Weather Service forecasts a temperature of 20°F or below in the village for the
following 24-hour period. (See 65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.1.)
   (D)   No disconnection of any service shall occur for any residential
customer for 30 days if a permanent resident of the household is certified to
be seriously ill and where disconnection of services will aggravate the
illness. Certification of illness will require a letter to the village which
contains the following: the names of the sick person; a statement that the sick
person is a resident of the premises in question; the name, business address
and telephone number of the certifying party; the nature of the illness; the
period of time during which termination of service will aggravate the illness.
An account will be limited to one certification in any 12-month forward rolling
period.
   (E)   Customers who have been ordered to report for military service may
have additional rights with respect to disconnection pursuant to § 11-117-12.2
of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.2).
(Prior Code, § 50C.005)
(Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 97-020, passed 8-18-1997; Ord. 2002-11,
passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 2002-036, passed 12-16-2002; Ord. 2009-012, passed 5-18-
2009; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.005 RECONNECTIONS.
   Utilities shall be reconnected after the customer has paid the bill in full,
including any late fee, and the customer has paid a deposit in the amount
currently required as in the case of new applications for service as set forth
in § 50.069 as of the date of reconnection, and the following reconnection fee:
 
First reconnection in a 12-month period for the customer                  $50
Second reconnection in a 12-month period for the customer                 $100
Third reconnection in a 12-month period for the customer                  $200
Fourth and subsequent reconnections in a 12-month period for the customer $400
 
(Prior Code, § 50C.006) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 97-020, passed 8-
18-1997; Ord. 98-017, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2002-036, passed 12-16-2002; Ord.
16-001, passed 1-4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.006 DELINQUENT POLICY FOR LEVEL PAY CUSTOMERS.
   Level pay customers who become delinquent automatically forfeit the
privilege of being on the level pay plan. After reconnection, such customers
shall be returned to normal payment. The customer shall become again eligible
for the level pay plan only after an acceptable payment history of 12 months
from the time of returning to normal pay is established.
(Prior Code, § 50C.007) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 50.007 PAYMENT PLANS.
   (A)   No more frequently than once per calendar year, a current customer may
apply to enter into a payment plan with the village.
   (B)   The payment plan shall be on a form specified by the village in the
Customer Utility Policy and Procedure Manual and shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   One-third of the current bill (which includes the late fee) shall
be paid at the time the payment plan is signed.
      (2)   An additional one-third of the current bill shall be paid within 15
days of the date of the payment plan, with the remaining one-third of the
current bill to be paid within 30 days of the date of the payment plan.
      (3)   All payment plans shall be in writing and signed by the customer
and by village billing personnel.
      (4)   The customer shall make all normal utility payments and payment
plan payments on time while the payment plan is in force. Failure to make such
payments will be considered a new delinquency and will result in termination of
service.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to accept or refuse a proposal payment
plan, in its discretion.
   (D)   No payment plan will be allowed in the event of a delinquency caused
by failure to make payments under a payment plan.
(Prior Code, § 50C.008) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 2009-012, passed
5-18-2009; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.008 DEPOSIT POLICY FOR DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Customers who do not have an acceptable payment history shall be
required to pay a deposit, as follows:
      (1)   Residential: a deposit of the monthly average of the previous 12
months (or as many months as available if less than 12 months are available),
but not less than $100; and
      (2)   Non-residential: a deposit equivalent to one-sixth of the previous
year’s total utility bill or one-sixth of the anticipated utility bill for the
year, but not less than $100.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an ACCEPTABLE PAYMENT HISTORY is defined
as follows:
      (1)   No collection/disconnection orders in the previous year;
      (2)   No defaults in established payment plans in the previous year; and
      (3)   Less than three delinquencies in the previous year.
   (C)   Delinquent utility deposits shall be refunded at the customer’s
request the month after the establishment of an acceptable payment history.
(Prior Code, § 50C.009) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 50.009 TERMINATION INVOLVING MASTER METERED APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In the event of termination of service to an apartment building having
three or more residential apartments with a master meter, the village shall, in
addition to the notice to the landlord, notify all tenants of the building of
the proposed termination of utility service. This notice shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The specific date, no sooner than ten days after the notice is
rendered, that utility service is subject to termination;
      (2)   A statement of the tenant’s statutory right either:
         (a)   To pay the utility company from the rent due on the rental
agreement; or
         (b)   To petition the court for appointment of a receiver to collect
the rents due for use and occupancy of the building and remit a portion to the
utility company for payment of utility bills.
      (3)   The dollar amount of the utility bills due and owing on the date
such notice is given and the average monthly utility bills; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of any legal services agency within
the utility company’s service area where the tenants may obtain free legal
assistance.
   (B)   The notice provided to the tenants of the building shall be of a
conspicuous size, on red paper, and in at least 14-point bold face type; except
that, the words “notice of (utility service) termination” shall be in 36-point
bold face type if the notice is posted, and shall state a penalty as provided
in §
50.999.
   (C)   The foregoing requirements are in accordance with the Rental Property
Utility Service Act, 765 ILCS 735/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 50C.010) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.010 DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Village billing personnel shall, at all reasonable times, be available
to receive and consider disputes of any customer, applicant or user relative to
an account for utility service. The person having a dispute which cannot be
resolved by billing personnel must request the hearing in writing, directed to
the village utility office. The customer, applicant or user shall be advised of
the customer’s right to have a hearing conducted by the Office Manager or the
Office Manager’s designee (who shall be a village employee other than the
billing employee who initially discussed the matter with the person requesting
the hearing). The village shall not disconnect the service of any person for
non-payment during the pendency of the dispute if:
      (1)   Written notice is given to the village utility office as herein
provided;
      (2)   Payment of all undisputed portions of the bill is made; and
      (3)   The person making the complaint or dispute enters into a bona fide
effort to resolve the disputed matter with all due dispatch.
   (B)   Notice of a dispute shall be made in writing and contain the name,
address and telephone number of the person disputing a charge; the address at
which utility service is received which is the subject of the dispute; the
specific grounds or reasons for which the charges billed are disputed; and the
specific relief requested.
   (C)   Upon filing of the notice, the Office Manager, or his or her designee,
shall schedule a hearing with the customer; if the customer has been sent a
notice of delinquency, the hearing shall be scheduled on or before the
disconnection date specified in the notice of delinquency.
   (D)   The hearing shall be informal but shall consist, as a minimum, of the
customer presenting reasons the customer believes the billing to have been in
error, and the billing personnel presenting reasons why the billing was not in
error. The customer’s ability to pay is not a relevant consideration.
(Prior Code, § 50C.011) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 2004-019, passed
6-21-2004)
§ 50.011 BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, BAD CHECK refers to the non-payment or
dishonor of a check by a bank or other financial institution upon which the
check is drawn for any reason, including but not limited to the following
reasons:
      (1)   Refer to maker;
      (2)   Nonsufficient funds;
      (3)   Signature missing or incomplete;
      (4)   Payment stopped;
      (5)   Account closed;
      (6)   Postdated; and/or
      (7)   Staledated.
   (B)   The maker of each bad check returned to the village by a bank or other
financial institution will be assessed the following handling fee for each item
returned:
      (1)   On the first occasion: $25.
      (2)   For the second occasion within one calendar year of the first
occasion: $50.
   (C)   After any person provides the village with a second bad check that is
returned within one calendar year of the first occasion, the village shall
accept no more checks from such person for six months from the date the payment
is made good; all payments to the village shall be made by cash or money order.
If a person owing the village money is late with a payment, e.g., with a
payment for utility services due on a date certain, during the six-month
period, the running of the six-month period shall recommence.
   (D)   The village shall use reasonable efforts to notify any person who has
tendered a bad check to the village at the address and phone number of the
person noted on the check or in the village’s files, e.g., a utility
application. However, the village’s inability or failure to make contact with
such person shall not extend any time period set forth in this policy.
   (E)   A person who has tendered a bad check to the village shall have two
business days from the date the check is returned to the village in which to
pay the village the amount of the bad check, plus the village handling fee,
plus any charges imposed by the village’s financial institution for handling
the bad check. All payments for bad checks shall be in cash, or by money order;
no checks will be accepted in payment for a bad check.
   (F)   When person tenders a bad check for utility services, any time periods
applicable to delinquent payments and utility reconnections shall be calculated
as if no payment at all had been made. If the check is not made good within two
business days, utilities may be disconnected without further notice.
   (G)   In order to minimize the potential for bad checks, the village will
accept no THIRD PARTY CHECKS (defined as a check written by a maker to a payee
who then endorses the check over to the village). Nor will the village accept
postdated checks.
(Prior Code, § 50C.012) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-
4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.012 LIEN.
   The amount of any bill which is delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the
real estate for which such services were rendered, and the Village Clerk is
authorized and directed each month to file sworn statements showing such
delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. The filing
of such statement shall be deemed notice of lien for payment of such charges
for such services. To the extent permitted by law, any property subject to such
a lien may be sold for non-payment to pay the charges, after deducting costs.
The Village Board may authorize and direct the Village Attorney to institute
foreclosure proceedings in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 50C.013) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 50.013 COLLECTION ACTIONS.
   The Office Manager is hereby granted the discretion to turn any delinquent
account over to a collection agency or attorney retained by the village for
collection. In the event the village sues to collect an account, the village
shall be entitled to recover, in addition to the amounts due, its costs,
expenses and reasonable attorney fees incurred in collecting the debt.
(Prior Code, § 50C.014) (Ord. 98-017, passed 4-20-1998)
EXTRATERRITORIAL UTILITY SERVICES
§ 50.025 POLICY.
   On and after 3-1-1998, it shall be the policy of the village that utility
services, including, but not limited to, gas, water, electric and sewer
services, will be provided to new customers who are not located within the
corporate limits of the village only on the condition that such customers shall
annex to the village within six months of their becoming contiguous to the
village. Customers who become contiguous to the village and do not annex within
six months thereof shall have utility services disconnected by the village. For
purposes of this subchapter, a NEW CUSTOMER includes an existing customer who
requests additional services or an expansion of existing services.
(Prior Code, § 50E.001) (Ord. 98-007, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.026 EXEMPTIONS.
   Utility customers who were customers of the village as of 3-1-1998, shall be
exempt from the policy set forth in §
50.025 of this chapter. However, if any such customer sells or otherwise
conveys extraterritorial property served by the village, the successor owner
shall have six months from taking title or from becoming contiguous, whichever
is later, to file an annexation petition with the village, or the successor
owner’s utility service will be disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 50E.002) (Ord. 98-007, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.027 APPLICABILITY.
   The policy set forth in §
50.026 of this chapter shall not apply to any customer when to do so would be
in violation of the customer’s contractual rights or to any customer located
within the corporate limits of another municipality.
(Prior Code, § 50E.003) (Ord. 98-007, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.028 ANNEXATION PETITIONS; VILLAGE TO BEAR COSTS.
   At the request of the customer, the village will bear the cost of all
annexation petitions required by this subchapter, including the preparation by
the village’s engineers of annexation plats and legal descriptions, and the
preparation by the Village’s Attorneys of the petitions and associated legal
documents. If the customer wishes to use other engineers or attorneys, the
customer may do so at the customer’s own cost.
(Prior Code, § 50E.004) (Ord. 98-007, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.029 NO OBLIGATION TO INSTITUTE SERVICE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as imposing any obligation for
the village to institute service to any extraterritorial customer. In the event
the policy set forth in this chapter is inconsistent with franchise rights of
an electric service supplier, the policy shall not apply to electric service to
the customer, but shall apply to all other utilities.
(Prior Code, § 50E.005) (Ord. 98-007, passed 2-16-1998)
UNIFORM POLICY REGARDING UTILITY BILLING REBATES AND CREDITS
§ 50.040 TIME PERIOD; LIMIT.
   Whenever the village or a customer discovers that there has been an error in
billing for any utility services, or in the event of a customer’s request for
an adjustment of a utility bill due to a water service break or other cause,
any rebate or credit issued by the village shall be limited to a time period
beginning on a date two years prior to discovery of the error or the customer’s
request for an adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 50F.001) (Ord. 98-008, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.041 CASH REBATE; CREDIT.
   When an error in billing is discovered, or in the event a customer’s request
for an adjustment of a utility bill is honored, the village shall issue a cash
rebate only if the service is discontinued. In all other cases, the village
shall credit the amount overpaid by the customer against subsequent utility
bills.
(Prior Code, § 50F.002) (Ord. 98-008, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 50.042 FUNDS TO WHICH CREDITS AND REBATES ARE APPLIED.
   The policies set forth in this subchapter shall apply to all village
utilities: gas, electric, water and sewer. However, since each utility has a
separate fund within the village treasury, any credit or rebate shall be solely
against the fund which received the overpayment.
(Prior Code, § 50F.003) (Ord. 98-008, passed 2-16-1998)
UTILITY RATES AND TAP CHARGES
§ 50.055 GENERAL.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern all utility rates, tap fees
and deposits for all village utilities.
(Prior Code, § 50G.001) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Any place which is not residential and which does not meet the
definitions of “governmental” or “industrial”. Includes, but is not limited to,
the sale, purchase or trading of tangible or intangible personal property on a
regular basis; the provision of services of any kind for which a charge is
made, and irrespective of whether the entity making the charge is a for-profit
organization; and non-governmental institutions such as churches, hospitals and
charities.
   GOVERNMENTAL. Any place where a unit or agency of a federal, state or local
government, or the United States Postal Service, has an office or is doing
business.
   INDUSTRIAL. The manufacture of goods and to railroad activities.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any place actually occupied as a dwelling, including single-
family units, multi-family units and mobile homes. A place primarily occupied
as a dwelling where a business is also carried on is considered RESIDENTIAL for
purposes of this subchapter.
   SENIOR CITIZEN SERVICE. Residential service to a person who has attained the
age of 62, at such person’s primary residence. Where more than one person
resides in a residence, the age of the person who applies for utility service
shall determine the eligibility of that residence for SENIOR CITIZEN SERVICE.
(Prior Code, § 50G.002) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.057 ELECTRIC RATES AND CHARGES.
   The monthly base rate for electric energy shall be based on the amount
consumed as measured at the customer’s meter, and according to the class of
customer, as follows.
   (A)   Base electric rates. The base monthly charge for electric energy shall
be based on the amount consumed as measured at the customer’s meter, and
according to the class of customer, as follows.
Type of Use                                        Amount       Rate effective
                                                                1- 1-24
Commercial and governmental - inside or outside    Up to 10 kwh $12.00
corporate limits of Riverton
Industrial and railroad service                    Up to 10 kwh $13.20
Residential - inside corporate limits of Riverton  Up to 10 kwh $10.00
Residential - outside corporate limits of Riverton Up to 10 kwh $11.00
Senior citizens - inside corporate limits of       Up to 10 kwh $9.00
Riverton only
Rates for usage over 10 kwh will be determined by adding the cost of the
purchased electric to the cost of the per unit overhead cost as determined by
the review of the audit.
Base Overhead cost                                             $.055733
 
   (B)   Purchased electricity adjustment clause. There is hereby established a
purchased electricity adjustment charge, which will be automatically added to
or subtracted from the rates set forth in division (A) above. The purchased
electricity adjustment charge shall be calculated monthly on the tenth day of
each month, and shall be the difference in cost per kwh delivered to the
village delivery station as of 11-1-2007 and the cost as of the tenth day of
the month in which the calculation is made. The purchased electricity
adjustment charge shall be applied to all electricity metered between the day
on which it is calculated and the tenth day of the succeeding month.
   (C)   Annual adjustment of base rates. Beginning in November 2008, and every
November thereafter, the Utilities Committee of the Village Board shall
determine, based on the most recent audit, any percentage increase or decrease
in overhead expense for the Electric Department in the previous year. At a
regular or special Board meeting in December 2008, and every December
thereafter, the Utilities Committee shall report any such percentage increase
or decrease in the overhead expenses of the Electric Department to the Village
Board, which report shall be placed in the minutes of the meeting. Effective 1-
1-2009, and January 1 of every year thereafter, the base electric rates
established above will be increased or decreased by the percentage increase
reported by the Utilities Committee, unless the Village Board by resolution
determines otherwise. Should the Utilities Committee fail to report the
percentage increase or decrease to the Village Board, then the foregoing base
rates will be increased or decreased by the rate of increase in the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) as published by the U.S. Department
of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the previous calendar year, without
further amendment of this chapter, unless the Village Board by resolution
determines otherwise. The new rates shall be published on the village website.
   (D)   Net metering customers. The village has instituted a net metering
system for customers who wish to participate in the program. Those customers
must sign an agreement for interconnection and parallel operation of
distributed generation with the village, and the following rate schedule shall
apply to those customers:
      (1)   Each customer will be charged the actual costs of establishing and
maintaining the interconnection with the village, as set forth in the agreement
for interconnection and parallel operation of distributed generation.
      (2)   The village will reconcile net metering accounts each July, by
reading the customer meters in the July billing cycle each year. Any usage
above net zero will be billed to the customer, by dividing that net usage
figure into a monthly average, and applying the monthly rate structure set out
above. Payment is due from the customer in the regular billing cycle of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 50G.003) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 18-020, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 19-019, passed 7-15-2019; Ord.
19-037, passed 11-18-2019; Ord. 20-020, passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 21-020, passed
12-6-2021; Ord. 22-023, passed 11-21-2022; Ord. 23-018, passed 12-4-2023)
Editor’s note:
   Utility rate analysis and changes became effective 1-1-2012.
§ 50.058 ELECTRIC SYSTEM TAP FEES.
   Any person, firm or corporation applying for the extension of the village
distribution system to provide electric service to the applicant’s premises
shall not be granted such service by the village unless and until such
applicant shall pay to the village a tap fee as follows: For a residential
connection, $1,250; For a commercial connection, $1,250 plus the cost of any
required transformer(s). Such payment shall be payable in advance and is non-
returnable. The maximum length of service line to be installed at this cost
shall be 75 feet from the property line and such additional lengths as are
required shall be paid for by the customer at the cost actually incurred by the
village for materials and labor of the additional installation. In addition,
whenever a tap-on requires the crossing of a village street or a highway, there
shall be a surcharge for the actual cost to the village of boring or excavating
the street or highway, as the case may be. If such applicant pays the village
the amount of such estimated costs, as estimated by the village and the village
extends service to the applicant’s premises, and the estimate exceeds the
amount actually expended, then the village shall refund to the applicant any
amount by which such estimated cost exceeds the actual cost incurred by the
village; if the amount actually expended exceeds the amount of the estimate,
then the applicant shall pay to the village any amount by which such actual
cost exceeds the estimated cost already paid.
(Prior Code, § 50G.004) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 24-03, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 50.059 WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The monthly charge for water delivered by the combined waterworks and
sewer system of the village shall be based on the quantity of water as measured
by each customer’s water meter. The charges shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   Water rates.
 
                   Residential Service Non-Residential Service
First 1,000 gallons $15.67              $16.13
Next 5,000 gallons  $7.28/1,000 gallons $7.57/1,000 gallons
Next 4,000 gallons  $8.02/1,000 gallons $8.31/1,000 gallons
Over 10,000 gallons $8.81/1,000 gallons $9.13/1,000 gallons
Residential rates are for residents in corporate village limits or customer
that is part of Spaulding water system.
 
      (2)   Sewer rates.
         (a)   The monthly charge for sewer services shall be based on the
amount of water consumed as measured at the customer’s meter, as follows.
All users, inside corporate limits of the village
   Demand charge, for availability of sewage treatment and for treatment of up $19.64
first 1,000 gallons
                                                                                  $5.78
   For water used in excess of 1,000 gallons                                   per
                                                                                  1,000
                                                                                  gallons
All users, outside corporate limits of the village
   Demand charge, for availability of sewage treatment and for treatment of up $21.42
first 1,000 gallons of water
                                                                                  $6.61
   For water used in excess of 1,000 gallons                                   per
                                                                                  1,000
                                                                                  gallons
Surcharge for exceptional loads. For users of the sewage system with sewage discharge
concentrations exceeding 200 mg/l BOD or 266 mg/l SS, there will be a surcharge, as
follows
                                                                                  $0.308
   Per pound of BOD                                                            per
                                                                                  pound
                                                                                  $0.235
   Per pound of SS                                                             per
                                                                                  pound
 
Surcharge for exceptional loads. For users of the sewage system with sewage
discharge concentrations exceeding 200 mg/l BOD or 266 mg/l SS, there will be
a surcharge, as follows
   Per pound of B$0.308 per pound
   Per pound of S$0.235 per pound
 
         (b)   Minimum payment for persons who are obligated to connect to the
village sewage system: all persons who are required by §
51.018 of this code of ordinances to connect to the village sewer system, but
who have not done so, shall be liable to pay the demand charge of $22.05,
effective 1-1-24.
   (B)   (1)   Beginning in November 2008, and every November thereafter, the
Utilities Committee of the Village Board shall determine, based on the most
recent audit, any percentage increase or decrease in overhead expense for the
Water and Sewer Department in the previous year. At a regular or special Board
meeting in December 2008, and every December thereafter, the Utilities
Committee shall report any such percentage increase or decrease in the overhead
expenses of the Water and Sewer Department to the Village Board, which report
shall be placed in the minutes of the meeting. Effective 1-1-2009, and January
1 of every year thereafter, the water and sewer rates established above will be
increased or decreased by the percentage increase reported by the Utilities
Committee, unless the Village Board by resolution determines otherwise. Should
the Utilities Committee fail to report the percentage increase or decrease to
the Village Board, then the foregoing water and sewer rates will be increased
or decreased by the rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, for the previous calendar year, without further amendment of this
chapter, unless the Village Board by resolution determines otherwise.
      (2)   The new rates shall be published on the village website.
(Prior Code, § 50G.005) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 18-020, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 19-037, passed 11-18-2019; Ord.
20-020, passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 21-020, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 22-023, passed
11-21-2022; Ord. 23-018, passed 12-4-2023)
Editor’s note:
   Utility rate analysis and changes became effective 1-1-2012.
§ 50.060 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM TAP FEES.
   (A)   There is established a tap-on fee of $1,250 for a standard three-
fourths inch service, and $1,000 for a standard one-inch service for each
connection made to the waterworks system; provided, however, that, whenever a
tap-on requires the crossing of a village street or a highway, there shall be a
surcharge for the actual cost to the village of boring or excavating the street
or highway, as the case may be. This includes installation to the property line
with one-inch CTS plastic.
   (B)   There is hereby established a tap-on fee of $475 for each connection
made to the sewerage system. This does not include any installation.
(Prior Code, § 50G.006) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 24-03, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 50.061 GAS SYSTEM RATES.
   (A)   The base monthly rate for natural gas service inside corporate limits
of the village based on furnishing 1,000 BTU per cubic foot natural gas at 60°F
are as follows.
 
For general and space heating use (Rates effective 1-1-24)
   First 1,000 cubic feet         $16
   Every 1,000 cubic feet thereaftBased on gas purchase price, plus
                                     distribution/ overhead cost: $0.45738
 
   (B)   The base monthly rate for natural gas service outside corporate limits
of the village based on furnishing 1,000 BTU per cubic foot natural gas at 60°F
are as follows.
 
For general and space heating use (Rates effective 1-1-24)
   First 1,000 cubic feet         $17.60
   Every 1,000 cubic feet thereaftBased on gas purchase price, plus
                                     distribution/ overhead cost: $0.50358
 
   (C)   There is hereby established a purchased gas adjustment charge, which
will be automatically added to or subtracted from the rates set forth in
division (A) above. The purchased gas adjustment charge shall be calculated
monthly on the tenth day of each month, and shall be the difference in cost per
1,000 cubic feet delivered to the village delivery station as of 11-1-2007, and
the cost as of the tenth day of the month in which the calculation is made. The
purchased gas adjustment charge shall be applied to all gas metered between the
day on which it is calculated and the tenth day of the succeeding month.
   (D)   Beginning in November 2008, and every November thereafter, the
Utilities Committee of the Village Board shall determine, based on the most
recent audit, any percentage increase or decrease in overhead expense for the
Gas Department in the previous year. At a regular or special Board meeting in
December 2008, and every December thereafter, the Utilities Committee shall
report any such percentage increase or decrease in the overhead expenses of the
Gas Department to the Village Board, which report shall be placed in the
minutes of the meeting. Effective 1-1-2009, and January 1 of every year
thereafter, the base gas rates established in division (A) above will be
increased or decreased by the percentage increase reported by the Utilities
Committee, unless the Village Board by resolution determines otherwise. Should
the Utilities Committee fail to report the percentage increase or decrease to
the Village Board, then the foregoing base gas rates will be increased or
decreased by the rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, for the previous calendar year, without further amendment of this
chapter, unless the Village Board by resolution determines otherwise. The new
rates shall be published on the village website.
   (E)   (1)   For a period not to exceed 36 months following the effective
date of this amendment, all natural gas customers of the Village of Riverton
will pay a monthly surcharge as follows: residential gas customers (both within
and outside the corporate limits) will pay a $12 monthly surcharge to be added
to their monthly billing statements.
      (2)   Small commercial/industrial users (based on their February 2021
consumption) will be charged a $40 monthly surcharge to be added to their
monthly billing statements.
      (3)   Large commercial/industrial users (based on their February 2021
consumption) will be charged a $100 monthly surcharge to be added to their
monthly bills.
      (4)   The lists of small and large commercial/industrial users is
available for inspection in the village office.
      (5)   Over this 36 month period, new residential customers will be
charged the $12 monthly surcharge, and all new commercial/industrial customers
will be charged the $40 monthly surcharge.
      (6)   These monthly surcharges will be in place for a period not to
exceed 36 months or when the village is able to pay off the Illinois finance
loan (either by forgiveness by the state of Illinois, with federal assistance
or otherwise), whichever comes first.
(Prior Code, § 50G.007) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 18-020, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 19-037, passed 11-18-2019; Ord.
20-020, passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 21-007, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 21-020, passed
12-6-2021; Ord. 22-023, passed 11-21-2022; Ord. 23-018, passed 12-4-2023)
Editor’s note:
   Utility rate analysis and changes became effective 1-1-2012.
§ 50.062 GAS SYSTEM TAP FEES.
   (A)   For all regular residential connections (one-half inch taps and
service connections), the village will furnish and install a valve service tee,
service pipe, connection, fittings, regulator, meter and necessary stopcocks
for the sum of $750 for all complete connections made within the village
limits. The maximum length of service line to be installed at this cost shall
be 75 feet from the property line and such additional lengths as are required
shall be paid for by the customer at the costs actually incurred by the village
for materials and labor of the additional installation. In addition, whenever a
tap-on requires the crossing of a village street or a highway, there shall be a
surcharge for the actual cost to the village of boring or excavating the street
or highway, as the case may be.
   (B)   For commercial purposes or for special space heating requirements,
requiring larger than one-half inch service pipe with incidental larger
fittings, stopcocks, regulators and meters, the village will furnish and
install a valve service tee, service pipe, connection, fittings, regulator,
meter and necessary stopcocks for the sum of $1,250 for all complete
connections made within the village limits. The maximum length of service line
to be installed at this cost shall be 75 feet from the property line and such
additional lengths as are required shall be paid for by the customer at the
costs actually incurred by the village for materials and labor of the
additional installation. In addition, whenever a tap-on requires the crossing
of a village street or a highway, there shall be a surcharge for the actual
cost to the village of boring or excavating the street or highway, as the case
may be.
(Prior Code, § 50G.008) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 24-03, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 50.063 SPECIAL RATES.
   The corporate authorities of the village may contract with users for special
rates where, in the judgement of the corporate authorities, a user is in a
special category and application of the rate to that user would not unlawfully
discriminate against other users.
(Prior Code, § 50G.009) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.064 TEMPORARY SERVICES.
   The rates for temporary electric services in connection with construction
activities are as follows:
 
Rate    The residential customer rate shall apply
Tap fee $25
 
(Prior Code, § 50G.010) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.065 ADDITIONAL TAP FEE AND UTILITY UPDATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All taps to any village utility system and updates of any service
shall be made by village personnel, or by other competent personnel as approved
by the Superintendent of Public Works, in his or her sole discretion.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall provide application forms for
taps, and service updates, and no application shall be approved until the tap
fee or update deposit is paid, together with any deposit required by §
50.069 of this chapter.
   (C)   All tap and service update applications shall be signed by an owner of
record of the premises to be served.
   (D)   Tap fees are required for all utility installations unless the
property served has an existing service that may be used without modification.
   (E)   The fee for an update of an existing utility service is the actual
cost thereof. However, the Superintendent of Public Works will estimate the
actual cost of the village’s labor, material and overhead for the update, and
before the village updates the service, the customer shall pay a deposit equal
to 110% of such estimate. If the actual cost incurred by the village is more
than the estimate, then the customer shall pay the difference; if the actual
cost is less than the deposit, the customer will be refunded the difference.
   (F)   The village will install utility services up to and including the
meter. The village will not install or be responsible for installations past
the meter. The customer will install the electric meter base supplied by the
village on the building at the desired location, and the village will wire to
it. The village will make the final connection at the electric meter on the
customer’s side. The village may in its sole discretion make the final
connection on the customer’s side for water and gas meters.
   (G)   A village lineperson will be present at all times during any service
work past the meter requiring access to the meter. If such work is performed
after normal business hours of the Electric Department, the customer will be
responsible for the extra cost to the village thereof, including, but not
limited to, any overtime pay and benefits for the lineperson.
(Prior Code, § 50G.011) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.066 REGULATIONS FOR CUSTOMER-INITIATED AND EMERGENCY DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   If a customer requests a disconnection in order to perform maintenance
on the customer side of the meter, the village will perform the disconnection
and subsequent reconnection free of charge during normal working hours upon
reasonable notice. Disconnections and reconnections requested for any time
after normal working hours of the relevant Village Utility Department will be
performed at the sole discretion of the Superintendent of Public Works. The
customer will be responsible for payment of the actual cost to the village,
including overtime pay and benefits, of any village employee who performs
disconnection or reconnection work after the normal working hours of the
Village Utility Department involved.
   (B)   The village recognizes the right of the village’s area fire protection
district to perform emergency shutoffs of electric and gas services. However,
the village disclaims all responsibility for property damage or personal injury
caused in whole or in part by such an emergency shutoff. The fire protection
district shall immediately report any such shutoff to the Superintendent of
Public Works or, in his or her absence, to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 50G.012) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.067 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS REGARDING RATES.
   The burden is on the applicant for service to prove to the satisfaction of
the Office Manager, in the Office Manager’s sole discretion, that the applicant
is entitled to any rate classification other than residential. The Office
Manager’s determination is subject only to review by the corporate authorities
of the village upon request of the applicant within 30 days of such
determination.
(Prior Code, § 50G.013) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.068 CHARGES FOR USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT.
   Whenever any section of this code of ordinances requires a utility customer
to pay the village the cost of installation or update of a utility, such cost
shall include charges for the use of village-owned equipment at rates equal to
the current published FEMA schedule of equipment rates.
(Prior Code, § 50G.014) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008)
§ 50.069 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Deposit required. Any person, firm or corporation, who or that may
apply for electric energy or current, shall be required to make a cash deposit
with the Treasurer of the village for the security of his, her or its account
in the following amounts:
      (1)   Electric energy.
 
Establishments with a village liquor license of any kind                      $500
Other industrial, commercial and business enterprises                         $500
Owner-occupied private residences, whether established or newly constructed   $150
Non-owner-occupied private residences, whether established or newly
constructed, where the owner co-signs the application, agreeing to be liable  $150
for all utility bills in the event of the tenant’s failure to pay
Non-owner occupied private residences, whether established or newly
constructed, where the owner does NOT co-sign the application, agreeing to be $400
liable for all utility bills in the event of the tenant’s failure to pay
 
      (2)   Natural gas service.
 
Non-owner-occupied private residences, whether established or newly
constructed, where the owner co-signs the application, agreeing to be liable  $50
for all utility bills in the event of the tenant’s failure to pay
Non-owner occupied private residences, whether established or newly
constructed, where the owner does NOT co-sign the application, agreeing to be $100
liable for all utility bills in the event of the tenant’s failure to pay
All other customers, including commercial, business and industrial customers  $50
and owner-occupied residences
 
      (3)   Extraterritorial water service (service outside the corporate
limits of the village).
 
All customers $50
 
   (B)   Refunds of deposits. Security deposits shall be held on the account
until the account is closed out. A customer terminating service shall call the
Village Utility Office to request a work order and provide their forwarding
address. Upon termination of service, the deposit will first be applied to the
final bill, provided no additional debts are owed, the remainder will be
refunded and mailed to the forwarding address provided.
   (C)   Transfers of deposits. The village will upon request allow the
transfer of a deposit in the event a customer relocates from one service
address to another service address, with no change of the name on the account.
A transfer of deposit is available only for those customers who are in good
standing with the village, with no more than one late payment in the previous
18 months. This policy applies to both owner-occupied and non-owner occupied
private residences.
   (D)   Separate accounts. All cash deposits shall be kept in accounts
separate from all other village funds.
(Prior Code, § 50G.015) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2008-001, passed
1-21-2008; Ord. 16-001, passed 1-4-2016; Ord. 16-021, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 50.070 ECONOMIC INCENTIVES FOR NEW COMMERCIAL PROJECTS.
   (A)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER means any new
commercial utility customer of the village, and any existing commercial
customer which is relocating within the village, expanding its operation and
requiring a new tap to a village utility system. The Administrative Committee
shall determine whether an applicant for utility services is a qualifying
commercial customer, subject to appeal to the Village Board in case of an
adverse finding by the Administrative Committee.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, the tap
fee charges for a qualifying commercial customer shall be as follows.
      (1)   The qualifying commercial customer shall pay the actual material
costs for water, gas and sewer extensions necessary for the customer to tap
into the village utility systems, including the cost of the meter and supply
lines from the edge of the property. The village shall provide the labor for
the tap at no charge to the qualifying commercial customer.
      (2)   The village waives the sewer tap fee for qualifying commercial
customers. The commercial customer shall be responsible for all materials and
labor for the installation of the sewer service. Village personnel are required
to inspect the sewer tap before it is buried.
      (3)   In addition, if the tap requires a bore under a street, the
qualifying commercial customer shall pay the actual cost of the bore.
      (4)   A qualifying commercial electric customer shall pay the entire cost
of the transformer, meter, wires and other material required for the electric
service. The village will provide the labor for the installation up to and
including the meter (the customer is always responsible for everything past the
meter).
(Prior Code, § 50G.016) (Ord. 2002-06, passed - -; Ord. 2003-003, passed - -;
Ord. 2003-032, passed - -; Ord. 2004-021, passed - -; Ord. 2005-005, passed -
-; Ord. 2005-010, passed - -; Ord. 2006-001, passed - -; Ord. 2010-005, passed
3-1-2010; Ord. 2010-012, passed 5-3-2010; Ord. 21-021, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a landlord or his or her agent to alter, deface,
tamper with or remove the notice referenced in §
50.009. A landlord or his or her agent who violates §
50.009 is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 50C.010) (Ord. 95-024, passed 10-16-1995)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Damage prohibited
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
51.015   Objectionable wastes restricted
   
51.016   Discharge to natural outlet prohibited
   
51.017   Private sewage disposal restricted
   
51.018   Connection required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.030   Allowed when
   
51.031   Permit required
   
51.032   Permit; inspection for approval
   
51.033   Compliance requirements
   
51.034   Public connection required when available
   
51.035   Owner liability
   
51.036   Additional provisions
   
51.037   Discontinuance; cleanup
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.050   Sewer work permit required
   
51.051   Discharge standards
   
51.052   Building sewer permit; classes
   
51.053   Building sewer permit; issuance conditions
   
51.054   Cost liability
   
51.055   Separate required for each building
   
51.056   Existing building sewer use
   
51.057   Applicable standards
   
51.058   Flow requirements
   
51.059   Surface water connection prohibited
   
51.060   Connection standards
   
51.061   Inspection notice
   
51.062   Safety requirements
Use of the Public Sewers
   
51.075   Unpolluted water prohibited
   
51.076   Discharge authorization
   
51.077   Discharge prohibitions
   
51.078   Prohibited discharges to storm sewers
   
51.079   Discharge restrictions generally
   
51.080   Discharge restrictions designated
   
51.081   Discharge determination
   
51.082   Interceptors required when
   
51.083   Pretreatment maintenance
   
51.084   Control manhole requirements
   
51.085   Laboratory analysis requirements
   
51.086   Laboratory analysis sampling
   
51.087   Special agreement
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.100   Right of entry for inspection
   
51.101   Safety and liability
   
51.102   Identification for entry
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Federal government.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.) as
amended (Pub. Law No. 95-217).
      FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II of the Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   (B)   State government.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The state’s participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with Secretary of State of
Illinois.
   (C)   Local government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Village Board.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act.
      ORDINANCE. The ordinance codified in this chapter.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton.
   (D)   Clarification word usage. “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissible.
   (E)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any appreciable NPDES permit.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
food.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.022 pounds of
suspended solids.
      ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      PROPERTY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage or industrial wastes, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   (F)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   (G)   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   (H)   Watercourse and connections.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (I)   User types.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
      USER CLASS. The type of user: residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial, as defined herein.
   (J)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding.
      LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs (i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs).
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
      SEWAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
51.075 through
51.087 of this chapter.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
51.030 through
51.037 of this chapter and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge,
the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 50.045) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.002 DAMAGE PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 50.038) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.015 OBJECTIONABLE WASTES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.016 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where pursuant to subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.017 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL RESTRICTED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.018 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may, in the future, be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of
the village, is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public
sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.030 ALLOWED WHEN.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.018 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.031 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Village Board. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the village,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Village Board. A permit and inspection
fee of $100 shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 50.006) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.032 PERMIT; INSPECTION FOR APPROVAL.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Village Board
and the State Department of Public Health. The village shall be allowed to
inspect, without notice, the work at any stage of construction and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Village Board and the
State Department of Public Health when the work is ready for final inspection,
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 72 hours of the receipt of written notice by the Village Board and the
State Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 50.007) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.033 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 6,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.008) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.034 PUBLIC CONNECTION REQUIRED WHEN AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.018 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(Prior Code, § 50.009) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.035 OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.010) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.036 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.011) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.037 DISCONTINUANCE; CLEANUP.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 50.012) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.050 SEWER WORK PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.013) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.051 DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 50.014) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.052 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT; CLASSES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential, wastewater service; and
      (2)   To commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater
service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the village. A permit and inspection fee of $100
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
village at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a condition of
permit authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater
constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
(Prior Code, § 50.015) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.053 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 50.016) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.054 COST LIABILITY.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.017) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.055 SEPARATE REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.018) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.056 EXISTING BUILDING SEWER USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Village Board, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.019) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.057 APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.058 FLOW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with §
51.051 of this chapter, and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.059 SURFACE WATER CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.060 CONNECTION STANDARDS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the village or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Village Board before installation.
(Prior Code, § 50.023) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.061 INSPECTION NOTICE.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Village Board
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Village Board
or its representative.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.062 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.075 UNPOLLUTED WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.026) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.076 DISCHARGE AUTHORIZATION.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Village Board. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Village Board,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.027) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.077 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 50.028) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.078 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO STORM SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect, or
cause to be connected, any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device
discharging polluting substances into any storm sewers constructed as part of
this improvement.
(Prior Code, § 50.028.1) (Ord. 97-035, passed 11-3-1997)
Editor’s note:
   This section refers to improvement of SBI Route 10.
§ 51.079 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of
the Village Board, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Village
Board will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
(Prior Code, § 50.029) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.080 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS DESIGNATED.
   The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village Board;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Village Board for such materials;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Village Board as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Village Board in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   (I)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time, except as permitted by the Village Board in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
   (J)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time, except as permitted
by the Village Board in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
   (K)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
   (L)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 50.030) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.081 DISCHARGE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.079 of this chapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, 6-26-1978, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgement of the Village Board may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Village Board may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
51.087 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Village Board permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Village Board, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 50.031) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.082 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED WHEN.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Village Board, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Village Board, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 50.032) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.083 PRETREATMENT MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 50.033) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.084 CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIREMENTS.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Village Board, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Village Board. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained
by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.034) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.085 LABORATORY ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   (1)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village; but, no less than
once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards are being met.
      (2)   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the
village. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the village.
      (3)   At such times as deemed necessary the village reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Prior Code, § 50.035) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.086 LABORATORY ANALYSIS SAMPLING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
   (D)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 50.036) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.087 SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefore, in
accordance with §§
51.015 through
51.018 of this chapter, by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(Prior Code, § 50.037) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.100 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Board, other duly authorized employees of the village and
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties at all reasonable
hours for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Village Board or its representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 50.039) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.101 SAFETY AND LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.100 of this chapter, the Village Board or duly authorized employees of the
village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify
the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain conditions as required in §
51.084 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.040) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 51.102 IDENTIFICATION FOR ENTRY.
   (A)   The Village Board and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties at all reasonable hours through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.041) (Ord. 88-003, passed 1-19-1988)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Establishing the two systems as one
   
52.02   Use of municipal property
Fees for Connection
   
52.15   Permits
   
52.16   Persons desiring to make connection
   
52.17   Copper tubing to be furnished and installed
Cross-Connections
   
52.30   Cross-connection control
   
52.31   Rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHING THE TWO SYSTEMS AS ONE.
   The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, and the
existing sanitary sewerage system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, of the village
be and the same are declared to be a combined system, and such combined
waterworks and sewerage system shall be maintained and operated as a single
utility, and that charges or rates shall be established for the use of such
combined system, which shall be reasonable and commensurate with the services
provided by such combined system, and shall be sufficient to maintain and
operate, provide an adequate depreciation fund and pay the principal and
interest on any revenue bonds which may be issued, which by their terms are
made payable from the revenues of such combined system.
(Prior Code, § 50B.001) (Ord. 88-005, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 52.02 USE OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   The village has authority and is hereby authorized to use village streets,
alleys, rights-of-way and other property owned by the village for the
extension, maintenance, and improvement of its water works system and sanitary
sewer system, pursuant to this code and rules and regulations adopted from time
to time.
(Ord. 22-13a, passed 7-5-2022)
FEES FOR CONNECTION
§ 52.15 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to make any connection to any of the mains
of the combined waterworks and sewerage system without having first obtained a
permit and paid all deposits and fees therefor under this chapter and §§
50.055 through
50.070 of this code of ordinances. Application for the permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk and shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of
such connection, the premises to be served, the specifications of such pipe to
be connected and the drain from the premises to the sewer pipe and each such
application shall be endorsed “fee paid” by the Village Clerk, and then shall
be referred to the Village Inspector and no permit shall be issued unless the
Inspector shall have found that the ordinances of the village will be complied
with by making the connection.
(Prior Code, § 50B.015) (Ord. 88-005, passed 1-19-1988; Ord. 90-003, passed 9-
18-1990; Ord. 2002-011, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 2007-007, passed 3-19-2007; Ord.
2008-001, passed 1-21-2008)
§ 52.16 PERSONS DESIRING TO MAKE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to or required to make any
connection with the waterworks system shall first make application to the
Waterworks and Sewerage Department for the purpose upon a form or forms to be
furnished by the village. Every such applicant shall state specifically and in
detail the place, location and kind of connection sought or required, and all
the plumbing or plumbing work in any manner or way connected therewith.
   (B)   No connection to the waterworks system shall be installed, altered or
changed in any building or structure within the village, or within one and one-
half miles within the corporate limits of the village, wherever the building or
structure receives its water supply from the public water supply system
operated by the village, until the permit for installation, alteration or
change shall be obtained from the appropriate village officials.
   (C)   The village shall be notified by the person, firm or corporation or
the person doing the work when any connection to the sanitary sewer system
under Ch. 51 of this code of ordinances or the waterworks system has begun and
when it is ready for inspection. No connection for which a permit has been
issued under this subchapter shall be covered or placed in operation until the
system shall be issued by the appropriate village officials.
   (D)   Every such person, firm or corporation so making a connection with the
waterworks system shall make such connection and maintain the same and shall
seal all joints, all as provided by the rules and regulations prescribed by the
village. Every excavation in any street or alley of the village required or
made in order to connect with the waterworks system shall be made subject to
the rules and regulations prescribed by the village and only after permission
therefor has been given by the village.
(Prior Code, § 50B.016) (Ord. 88-005, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 52.17 COPPER TUBING TO BE FURNISHED AND INSTALLED.
   (A)   When the village issues a permit based upon an application for a
connection with the waterworks system, the village will furnish and install
three-quarter inch copper tubing of up to 60 feet; and in addition, will
provide and install the corporation stop, meter pit, meter box cover, three-
quarter inch meter, meter yoke and three-quarter-inch saddle. All property
furnished and materials utilized will remain the property of the village.
   (B)   If the applicant wishes a larger scale copper tubing, and so states in
his or her application, he or she will be required to pay the cost difference
between the requested tubing and the three-quarter inch tubing provided
normally by the village.
   (C)   For each installation requiring more than the standard three-quarter-
inch service, the village will provide to the applicant a cost estimate sheet
which shall be prepared by the Water Superintendent, or his designee, and will
include a reasonable estimate of the cost of materials, use of specialized
equipment, labor (at its cost to the village), and administrative fee as set by
the Water Superintendent or the Water Committee. The applicant shall pay this
cost estimate in full prior to the materials for the installation being
ordered. Any amounts left over from the estimate shall be refunded to the
applicant and any cost overruns which are a result of unforeseen circumstances,
shall be paid by the applicant upon completion of the installation.
(Prior Code, § 50B.021) (Ord. 88-005, passed 1-19-1988; Ord. 90-004, passed 9-
18-1990; Ord. 90-005, passed 10-16-1990)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.30 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or, in the judgement
of the Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the person
appointed by the President and Board of Trustees of the village will give
notice to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved
device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing
Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved devices as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and
local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Village Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the person appointed by the Village President
and Board of Trustees to cause surveys and investigations to be made of
industrial and other properties served by the public water supply to determine
whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such
surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
repeated at least every two years, or as often as the appointee of the Village
President and Board of Trustees shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection village appointee shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village water supply for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
village appointee or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter
at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village water supply for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any
information which he or she may request regarding the piping system or systems
or water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the village appointee, be deemed evidence of
the presence of improper connection as provided in this subchapter.
   (E)   The village appointee is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and until the usual
reconnection fee is paid to the Village Water Department. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the village appointee is
assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water
supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of
the cause of disconnection.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 50B.030) (Ord. 89-009, passed 4-5-1989)
§ 52.31 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Water Committee of the village is empowered to promulgate rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of §
52.30 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50B.031) (Ord. 89-009, passed 4-5-1989)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS
Section
   
53.01   Application for taps and service connections to natural gas system
   
53.02   Specifications for regular gas service connections
   
53.03   All service shall be metered
   
53.04   Meters, regulators, fittings and appurtenances connected with system to
be open to inspection
   
53.05   Meter reading conclusive
   
53.06   Test of meters
   
53.07   Separate meters for each distinct premises
   
53.08   Meter, regulator or village-owned equipment damaged
   
53.09   Village not liable for an interruption of service or supply
   
53.10   Connection with private lines, general rules, regulations
   
53.11   Regulations relative to customer’s piping, facilities, appliances and
necessary venting
   
53.12   Rules to become part of contract
   
53.13   Extensions of gas mains and service
   
53.14   Tampering with meter regulator or any parts of the gas system belonging
to the village
   
53.15   Gas Committee
   
53.16   Protection of natural gas service lines and mains during construction
§ 53.01 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO NATURAL GAS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to make a gas tap or service
connection with the natural gas system of the village shall file a written
application thereof in the office of the Superintendent of Public Utilities of
the village upon blank forms to be provided for such purpose, signed by the
owner of the property for which such tap or service connection is desired, or
by a duly authorized agent of such owner. Such application shall be accompanied
by payment of the fees set out in this chapter to cover the cost of such
service connection. In the event such application is made by an agent for such
owner, then such application shall also be accompanied by the written authority
of such owner to such agent for the making of such application. Where service
lines are laid on private property, an easement shall be executed by the owner
thereof providing for the installation and maintenance of the proposed service
lines to be installed and maintained by the village and for the extension along
or across such property for making other service connections from the same
service line.
   (B)   Upon the filing of such application, if the same is in proper form and
the cost advanced as herein required, an order for the installation of service
pipe, tap, meter and service connections will be issued to the officer or
employees of the village having charge of such work whose duty it shall be to
make such installation and connection without unnecessary delay, and to return
such order, immediately upon completion of the work with an endorsement thereon
signed by such officer or employee, showing the date, place and manner in which
such taps or service connections were made, and an itemized statement of the
cost thereof. All applications and the orders and reports issued and returned
thereon shall be appropriately numbered and kept on file in the office of the
Gas Department as a permanent record.
   (C)   In addition to the cost of the gas service connection, each
application shall be accompanied with a deposit of $50 to be known as a meter
deposit charge.
   (D)   This meter deposit charge shall be deposited in the Natural Gas Meter
Deposit Fund and in the event any customer discontinues service and has paid in
full all amounts due for his or her service charges, then the full amount of
the deposit shall be refunded. However, in the event that any amounts are due
from such customer, either for gas or service charges, then such amounts shall
be deducted and paid into the proper fund and the balance shall be refunded.
   (E)   Any customer who has paid all amounts due within the specified period
for a period of five years shall, upon application to the village, be refunded
his or her deposit.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 78-011, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 53.02 SPECIFICATIONS FOR REGULAR GAS SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   All gas service connections made to the gas mains of the village shall be in
accordance with specifications established from time to time by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
§ 53.03 ALL SERVICE SHALL BE METERED.
   (A)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of the positive type and
shall be American Gas Association approved.
   (B)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings wherever practical. Indoor installations
must be vented with an adequate vent extending to the outside.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.04 METERS, REGULATORS, FITTINGS AND APPURTENANCES CONNECTED WITH SYSTEM TO
BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   At all reasonable hours, meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures and
appurtenances connected with the system and located on private property shall
be open for inspection by the proper officers or employees of the village. Any
part found to be defective or not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be immediately repaired or corrected. Service may be discontinued
at any time when conditions of the privately owned facilities create danger or
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 51.005) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.05 METER READING CONCLUSIVE.
   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by the
meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the liability of the village shall be
included under such liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive; provided
that, whenever the village shall find any meter not registering, then an
average bill may be rendered based at the option of the village, on either the
nearest previous three months average use when meter was in good order, or
based on the same month or months of the preceding year. Whenever the village
shall have reason to believe that the meter is not registering correctly, then
an average bill as stated above may be rendered and the meter removed for
testing. If such average bill should prove to be incorrectly estimated, either
by actual testing or by actual gas consumption, after being replaced by a
corrected meter, then such bill shall be compared and adjusted.
(Prior Code, § 51.006) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.06 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the village to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter then in use on their premises. Such tests will be made by the village
without charge, provided that such meter has not been tested within two years
preceding such a request. In case a consumer requests an accuracy test of a
meter which has been previously tested within two years, then the consumer
shall be required, prior to making test, to deposit with the village the sum of
$25 to cover the cost of removing, testing and replacing such meter.
   (B)   In the event such meter is found by testing, to register incorrectly
at full capacity, by more than 2%, then another accurate meter shall be
substituted and the test deposit shall be refunded. Past gas bills shall be
adjusted by refund or credit of such percentage of the amount of the gas bills
for a period of not more than three months previous to such test.
   (C)   In the event that the meter is found to be registering correctly, the
consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and such funds shall be deposited in
the gas operating funds of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.007) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.07 SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT PREMISES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any gas service pipe or
transmit gas supplied by the natural gas system of the village, into two
distinct premises from one meter. Apartment buildings having separate dwelling
units may be serviced from a single meter. Duplex dwellings shall be serviced
from individual meters.
(Prior Code, § 51.008) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.08 METER, REGULATOR OR VILLAGE-OWNED EQUIPMENT DAMAGED.
   (A)   Whenever a meter, regulator or other equipment of a service connection
which has been installed by the village is found to have been damaged for any
cause whatsoever, such damages shall become the liability of the customer who
shall pay the village the actual cost of removal, repairing and/or replacing of
such damaged equipment.
   (B)   In the event such damage has caused inaccurate metering, then such gas
bills shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for herein to cover
such period that the meter was out of order.
(Prior Code, § 51.009) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.09 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR AN INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for
any operating reason. In all cases where possible, a reasonable notice of the
circumstances will be given to the customers; but, in an emergency, the gas may
be shut off without notice. Such necessary repairs or work will be made by the
village as rapidly as may be practical. The village shall not be held
responsible or liable because of any shut off or discontinuance of service for
any direct or resultant damages to any person, company or customer.
   (B)   In the event of such discontinuance of gas service, the village will
make every attempt to safeguard the customer; and service shall not be renewed
until the village authorities have purged the lines and put into service all
automatic controls and pilots. The cost of purging of lines, relighting pilots
and checking automatic controls will be borne by the village and the customer
will not be liable for any portion thereof. Where the nature of the customer’s
operations are such that an interruption of service might create a hazard or
large economic loss, such customer shall provide facilities for standby service
if desired.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut-off or interfered with by reasons of any village
street improvement, the village will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or damage of any kind either to the customers
adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damage to property due
to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the village without
cost to the customer.
   (D)   The village expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons
who may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither
insure, nor be responsible or liable in any manner for, any loss or damages
direct or indirect by any reason of any fire, or any other cause and all gas
service furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable
accidents, fire, strikes, riots or any other causes.
(Prior Code, § 51.013) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.10 CONNECTION WITH PRIVATE LINES, GENERAL RULES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a connection is made with a private line, such service shall
be metered at the point of such connection and the customer requesting such
service shall provide a satisfactory location for the placing of such metering
devices, regulators and other materials and equipment required. Such private
lines shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the village prior to
making the necessary service connections.
   (B)   The village shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal
or replacement of any pipe, fixtures or apparatus which is considered to be
faulty, inadequate or hazardous; provided, however, that, this provision shall
not obligate the village in any way or manner. The village shall have the right
to refuse or to discontinue gas service without notice to its customers if the
village finds any apparatus or appliance in operation which would be
detrimental to the efficient operation of the existing facilities.
   (C)   All persons, firms, corporations and customers are strictly forbidden
to attach any electrical ground wire to any fixture or piping which is or may
be connected to any gas service pipe, meter or main belonging to the village.
The village will hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable for any
damage to its property or injury to the employees of the village caused by such
ground wire. Any and all customers, persons, firms or corporations shall remove
any existing ground wires immediately and if such ground wires are not removed
after 24-hours’ written notice, the village through its officials, may enter
the property and remove such ground wires and the customer shall pay all costs.
All questions and complaints shall be made to the Gas Department of the
village, who shall be responsible for the proper investigation. The Department
shall be required to make a full report to the customer in all such cases, a
copy of which shall be filed with the Village Clerk and reported by him or her
to the President and Village Board at the next regular meeting. Any
disrespectful or unwarranted acts of the village employees shall be reported
immediately. All employees of the village are strictly forbidden to demand or
accept any tips, gratuity or other personal compensation for any services
whatsoever rendered during working hours.
(Prior Code, § 51.014) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.11 REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMER’S PIPING, FACILITIES, APPLIANCES AND
NECESSARY VENTING.
   (A)   All house piping shall be of rigid construction. The pipe from the
outlet of the meter shall be of iron pipe not less than one-inch inside
diameter and shall enter the house wall or be securely fastened to the wall by
means of suitable metal strap or clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from
the outlet connection of the meter, and if extended along the outside wall
shall be fastened throughout. In instances where piping from meter enters the
wall, the opposite end shall be securely fastened so that the pipe will not
turn when fittings at the meter are put on. The piping from the meter through
or along the wall shall constitute, and hereinafter be called the “house pipe
manifold”. The one-inch manifold will be used where the total hourly demand for
gas does not exceed 400 cubic feet per hour. Where the total hourly demand of a
building or house is in excess of 400 cubic feet of gas per hour, the Village
Gas Department must be consulted for specifications for the house pipe
manifold.
   (B)   From any house pipe manifold, pipe to the various appliances shall be
of the same dimensions as the fitting on the appliance where such appliance is
designed and approved for natural gas. Where appliances are to be converted
from liquefied petroleum gas, pipe from the manifold to the appliance shall be
of such size as would be approved by the American Gas Association for natural
gas appliances having the same BTU input rating.
   (C)   From the house pipe manifold any appliance pipe may be extended a
maximum distance of 40 lineal feet. For each 90-degree turn in the appliance
pipe, three lineal feet shall be deducted from the maximum distance. Copper
pipe may be substituted for iron pipe from the manifold to the appliance.
Copper pipe must have O.D. dimension equivalent to I.D. of standard iron pipe.
Only type K copper pipe may be used. All copper fittings must be of flare type
only. When copper tubing is used, insulated copper to iron fittings must be
used at the meter end and appliance end of tubing.
   (D)   No connection will be made with any house type manifold that has not
been tested for leakage.
   (E)   All gas conversion burners to be installed shall be AGA approved. All
designated heating plants shall be AGA approved and the manufacturer’s
recommendations for the installation shall be followed.
   (F)   No conversion burner shall be installed in an old or inefficient warm
air furnace which is in poor repair or in an old or leaky boiler which is in
poor repair. Test for leakage shall be with oil of wintergreen or smoke bomb on
any warm air heating plant before installing a conversion burner. Furnaces must
be reset if found to be leaking.
   (G)   Before connecting a flue or vent connector into any chimney, the
chimney shall be examined to ascertain that it is properly constructed, clear,
clean and will freely conduct the products of combustion from the gas heating
appliance in question to the outer air.
   (H)   All appliances, excepting cook stoves, with over 8,000 BTU per hour
input rating must be vented. No unvented appliance, excepting cook stoves,
shall be placed in the same room with a gas refrigerator. An approved type vent
pipe and draft diverter shall be installed on all gas burning space heating and
water heating appliances. Vent pipe shall be installed with not less than one-
half inch rise per foot of horizontal run. General rules for venting as
prescribed by AGA must be followed.
   (I)   All positive type catches on firing door shall be eliminated and a
hinge pin and spring be installed.
   (J)   All heating plants of the down draft type shall be vented by
connecting a one-inch black iron pipe from the highest point of the flue
passage of the heating plant to the flue pipe. The one-inch iron pipe shall be
welded or screwed into the furnace in a manner to assure no leakage.
   (K)   A gas shut-off shall be installed in the fuel line directly above the
appliance manifold connection. Such shut-off to be plainly marked. Gas pilot
line shall be connected to fuel line ahead of main shut-off valve.
   (L)   A high limit control shall be installed on all heating plants. A low
water cut-off control shall be installed on all gas fired steam boilers.
   (M)   All gas burning appliances shall be installed in a location in which
the facilities for ventilation permit satisfactory combustion of gas and proper
venting under normal conditions of use. The necessary measures shall be taken
to ascertain that the above ventilation conditions are present.
   (N)   The final tie-in of the gas line to the meter shall be made by the
village. Before the final tie-in is made, it shall be the duty of the Village
Gas Department to make a complete inspection.
(Prior Code, § 51.015) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.12 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
natural gas system of the village and the consumption of gas therefrom shall
become a part of the contract with every gas customer, and every gas customer
shall be subject thereto and bound thereby.
(Prior Code, § 51.016) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.13 EXTENSIONS OF GAS MAINS AND SERVICE.
   (A)   The village shall not be required to extend service within the village
limits a distance of more than 100 feet per customer, and only then when
sufficient funds are available, in excess of those required for the proper
operation of the system. Extension of mains and service outside of the village
limits shall be subject to approval of the Board and shall be also subject to
all of the rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein or as may be
amended.
   (B)   Where service is desired when funds for extensions are not available
or/and when the distance is in excess of the 100 feet per customer noted above,
such extension can be made if the applicant will deposit with the village the
estimated cost of making the extension, less 100 feet, when funds are
available, or the entire amount when funds are not available. The amount so
deposited shall be refunded to such consumer or consumers at the rate of 50% of
each monthly billing until the total deposited has been refunded. Such deposit
shall be interest free. In the event that the amount deposited is greater or
less than the actual cost of the extension, such excess or deficiency shall be
corrected prior to giving service.
   (C)   Deposits made under the provisions of this section shall not exempt
the applicant from the payment of all other charges required by this chapter.
   (D)   Amounts received by the village for such extensions shall be deposited
in the Meter Deposit Fund and payments for refunds shall likewise be paid from
the same fund.
(Prior Code, § 51.017) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.14 TAMPERING WITH METER REGULATOR OR ANY PARTS OF THE GAS SYSTEM BELONGING
TO THE VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to break
the seal of any meter or in any manner to make any alterations, changes or
repairs on the same or to open any mains, laterals, service pipes, stop cocks,
valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work
on either or any of them without authority of the village or its properly
authorized agent. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section or who shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property
connected with the gas system of the village shall be subject to the penalty
hereinafter prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 51.018) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.15 GAS COMMITTEE.
   The President shall appoint a committee of two members of the Board as a Gas
Committee, one of whom shall be appointed as Chairperson. It shall be the Gas
Committee’s duty to confer with the duly authorized agent appointed to operate
and maintain the gas system of the village and to institute such additional
rules and regulations for the operation of the Gas Department as may be
required for its efficient operation from time to time. All action of the
Committee shall be subject to the approval of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 51.019) (Ord. 121, passed 9-2-1958)
§ 53.16 PROTECTION OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE LINES AND MAINS DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Plans for construction work which include trenching or excavation must
include the general location of all natural gas service lines and mains which
cross the construction or are located within ten feet of the outer limits of
the proposed trenching or excavation.
   (B)   A preconstruction conference must be held not less than two weeks
prior to the beginning of trenching or excavation work, and minutes of that
conference must be maintained in the permanent records of the gas utility.
   (C)   The preconstruction conference mentioned in division (B) above should
be attended by the superintendent of the excavator and by the Gas Manager or
Superintendent of the Gas Utility or a designated member of the Gas Committee.
   (D)   A written request for surface marking must be delivered by the
excavator to the Gas Manager or Superintendent of the Gas Utility or a
designated member of the Gas Committee not less than two full working days
prior to the initiation of excavation.
   (E)   Gas facilities to be exposed by excavations shall be specifically
identified to the Gas Manager or Superintendent of the Gas Utility or a
designated member of the Gas Committee by the excavator 24 hours in advance of
the time that such facility or facilities will be exposed.
   (F)   The excavator shall report any incident in which gas facilities are
accidentally exposed, but not damaged, to the Gas Manager or Superintendent of
the Gas Utility or a designated member of the Gas Committee not less than two
hours following such accidental exposure of facilities.
   (G)   A qualified employee of the village’s gas utility shall be present at
the site of any excavation occurring within ten feet of any gas service line or
other gas facility.
   (H)   The cost incurred in providing the person described in division (G)
above shall be paid by the excavator at actual cost to the Gas Utility of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 51.020) (Ord. 88-012, passed 9-20-1988)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
54.01   Removal of obstructions interfering with installation
   
54.02   Village Electrician to maintain the electric system
   
54.03   Underground distribution system
   
54.04   Village may enter into special contractual agreements
   
54.05   Interfering with any equipment prohibited; liability for damages
   
54.06   By-pass device prohibited
   
54.07   Electric and Fire Codes to be adhered to
   
54.08   Maintenance of adequate service
§ 54.01 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS INTERFERING WITH INSTALLATION.
   The Village Electrician shall have the power to remove or cause to be
removed any trees or branches on any street or alley in any way obstructing or
interfering with the installation of any portion of the electric system of the
village or its proper maintenance and operation.
(Prior Code, § 52.002) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.02 VILLAGE ELECTRICIAN TO MAINTAIN THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM.
   Under the supervision and direction of the Village Board, the Village
Electrician shall operate and maintain the electric system of the village,
subject to all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the President and the
Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 52.003) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.03 UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   The village will provide an underground distribution system in new
subdivisions or in new developments of more than one residence at cost to the
developer. The developer must provide all necessary easements and enter into an
agreement with the village to pay for the cost of the underground distribution
system. Such agreement may provide that the developer may receive credit for
each new customer added to the village electric system as residences are
completed and occupied in the amount of the quotient obtained by dividing the
total cost of the underground distribution system by the number of dwellings
contemplated to be built in the new subdivision or development.
(Prior Code, § 52.007) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.04 VILLAGE MAY ENTER INTO SPECIAL CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS.
   From time to time, the village may enter into special contractual agreements
where the nature of the electric service requires it to do so.
(Prior Code, § 52.009) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.05 INTERFERING WITH ANY EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any manner or in
any way deface, injure or destroy any wires, wiring, poles, transformers,
meters, street lights or other property of the village electric system.
   (B)   Any person damaging any facilities of the village electric system as
described in this chapter is liable to the village for all damages which the
village may sustain. The measure of liability is the cost of repairing or
replacing the facilities so damaged and includes material and labor.
(Prior Code, § 52.013) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.06 BY-PASS DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall secure electric energy or current by the use of some device
where such electric energy or current, or some part thereof, is not measured
through a village meter. If the village discovers any such device, it shall
immediately disconnect services. Reconnection of the premises served by the
bypass meter shall be made only upon the customer making restitution for
electricity illegally diverted and the payment of a $750 reconnection fee in
addition to any tap fees required.
§ 54.07 ELECTRIC AND FIRE CODES TO BE ADHERED TO.
   The Electric and Fire Codes of the state shall be adhered to at all times.
No connection shall be granted unless the provisions of these codes are
observed. Extension of electric services from one established unit to another
is hereby prohibited without approval of the Board of Trustees. All dwellings,
trailers and mobile homes for which an electrical connection is desired must be
serviced through a separate meter and charged for at the applicable rate stated
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.015) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
§ 54.08 MAINTENANCE OF ADEQUATE SERVICE.
   The village will endeavor to maintain adequate and continuous electric
service to its customers, but does not guarantee that the supply of energy
will, at all times, be constant; and the village shall not be liable to the
customer for any damages resulting from temporary cessation of service
occasioned by fire, explosion, flood, strike, insurrection, mob violence,
governmental interference, breakdown or injury to machinery or distributing
lines, or other accidents or causes not reasonably within its control.
(Prior Code, § 52.016) (Ord. 72-012, passed 12-5-1972)
CHAPTER 55: WELLS
Section
Setback Zones and Regulations
   
55.01   Purpose
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Prohibitions
   
55.04   Waivers, exceptions and certifications of minimal hazard
   
55.05   Exclusion
SETBACK ZONES AND REGULATIONS
§ 55.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 ILCS 5/11-125-4 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, and the interest of securing the public health, safety and
welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of ground water resources in
order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for present and future
generations; and to preserve ground water resources currently in use and those
aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all properties located within the
minimum setback zone established under § 14.2 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/14.2) and this chapter, and the maximum setback zone
established under § 14.3 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/14.3).
(Prior Code, § 55.001) (Ord. 94-031, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this code, and unless a different meaning of a work or
term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in the code
shall be the same as those used in the act and the Illinois Ground Water
Protection Act, 415 ILCS 55/1 et seq. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1.
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD. The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act and this code, and described in Appendix A
to Ord. 94-031, incorporated by reference and on file in the village office.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act and this code, and described in Appendix A
to Ord. 94-031, incorporated by reference and on file in the village office.
   POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE.
      (1)   Any unit at a facility or site not currently subject to a removal
or remedial action which:
         (a)   Is utilized for the treatment, storage or disposal of any
hazardous or special waste not generated at the site;
         (b)   Is utilized for the disposal of municipal waste not generated at
the site, other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris;
         (c)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating, surface
impounding or piling of any hazardous or special waste that is generated on the
site or at the other sites owned, controlled or operated by the same person; or
         (d)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 75,000 pounds above
ground, or more than 7,500 pounds below ground, of any hazardous substances.
      (2)   A new POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE is:
         (a)   A potential primary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of 1-1-1988;
         (b)   A potential primary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary, or if the primary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of 1-1-1988; or
         (c)   A potential primary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed with
a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable entirely
new facility.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   POTENTIAL ROUTE.
      (1)   Abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds, drainage
wells, all injection wells, including closed loop heat pump wells, and any
excavation for the discovery, development or production of stone, sand or
gravel.
      (2)   A new POTENTIAL ROUTE is:
         (a)   A potential route which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of 1-1-1988; or
         (b)   A potential route which expands laterally beyond the currently
permitted boundary or, if the potential route is not permitted, the boundary in
existence as of 1-1-1988.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE.
      (1)   Any unit at a facility or site not currently subject to a removal
or remedial action, other than a potential primary source, which:
         (a)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating or surface
impounding of waste that is generated on the site or at other sites owned,
controlled or operated by the same person, other than livestock and landscape
waste, and construction and demolition debris;
         (b)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000, but not more
than 75,000, pounds above ground, or more than 2,500, but not more than 7,500,
pounds below ground, of any hazardous substances;
         (c)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 gallons above
ground, or more than 500 gallons below ground, of petroleum, including crude
oil or any fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or
designated as a hazardous substance;
         (d)   Stores or accumulates pesticides, fertilizers or road oils for
purposes of commercial application or for distribution to retail sales outlets;
         (e)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 50,000 pounds of any
de-icing agent; or
         (f)   Is utilized for handling livestock waste or for treating
domestic wastewaters other than private sewage disposal systems as defined in
the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act.
      (2)   A new POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE is:
         (a)   A potential secondary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of 7-1-1988;
         (b)   A potential secondary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the secondary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of 7-1-1998, other than an expansion for handling of
livestock waste or for treating domestic wastewaters; or
         (c)   A potential secondary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
(Prior Code, § 55.002) (Ord. 94-031, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 55.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
55.04 or
55.05 of this chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source,
new potential secondary source or new potential route within the minimum
setback zone.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
55.04 of this chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source
within the maximum setback zone.
(Prior Code, § 55.003) (Ord. 94-031, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 55.04 WAIVERS, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   (A)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(b) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential route is
granted a waiver by the Agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a waiver to
the same extent from §
55.03(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating), new potential
secondary source or new potential route is granted as exception by the Board,
such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent from §
55.03(A) of this chapter.
   (C)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source (other than landfilling or land treating) is granted an
exception by the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the
same extent from §
55.03(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential route is issued
a certificate of minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not be subject
to §
55.03(A) of this chapter to the same extent that such owner is not subject to §
14.2(d) of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 55.004) (Ord. 94-031, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 55.05 EXCLUSION.
   Section
55.03(A) of this chapter shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary
pollution as specified pursuant to § 17 of the Act and the regulations adopted
thereunder by the Agency; however, no such common sources may be located within
the applicable minimum distance from a community water supply well specified by
such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 55.005) (Ord. 94-031, passed 11-7-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Scope
   
70.02   Definitions
Signs and Signals
   
70.15   Obedience to signs and signals required
   
70.16   Defacing, injuring signs or signals
Traffic Code Enforcement
   
70.30   Traffic violation notices to be furnished to police
   
70.31   Method of issuing traffic and parking violation notices
   
70.32   Illegally parked vehicles; registered owner responsible
   
70.33   Impoundment of illegally parked vehicles; procedure
   
70.34   “Vehicle pound” defined
   
70.35   Removal from impoundment
   
70.36   Liability for impoundment charges and towing fees
   
70.37   Additional remedies
   
70.38   Additional remedy by complaint
   
70.39   Payment of penalty due
   
70.40   Receipts for payment
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This title shall be known as the “Riverton Traffic Code” or as the
“traffic code”. Where a section of the traffic code is followed by a reference
to the Illinois Revised Statutes, such reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to such Revised Statutes section.
   (B)   The provisions of the traffic code are intended to apply to all
traffic and to all operators not specifically excepted.
   (C)   The provisions of the traffic code shall, in no way, limit, alter or
otherwise affect the civil or criminal responsibility of any person under the
statutes for the state.
   (D)   The provisions of the ordinances contained in this traffic code,
excepting Ch. 72 hereof, are hereby enacted pursuant to the provisions of 625
ILCS 5/11-207 and 5/11-208, and 65 ILCS.
(Prior Code, § 70.001) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952; Ord. 74-003, passed 3-19-
1974)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual and physical control of a vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced in the prolongation of the property lines of
two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not such streets cross.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.002) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952)
SIGNS AND SIGNALS
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by the authority of
the President and Board of Trustees of the village or in accordance with the
laws of the state. All signs established by direction of the President and
Board of Trustees of the village shall conform to the state standards for
traffic signals.
(Prior Code, § 70.005) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 DEFACING, INJURING SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.006) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.30 TRAFFIC VIOLATION NOTICES TO BE FURNISHED TO POLICE.
   The Chief of Police of the village shall cause parking violation notices to
be printed in duplicate, which shall be numbered serially and shall be issued
to members of the Police Department of the village, which members shall each
execute receipts for those notices issued to him or her. Each member of the
Department shall be accountable for the parking violation notices issued to him
or her.
(Prior Code, § 74.001) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.31 METHOD OF ISSUING TRAFFIC AND PARKING VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   A traffic violation notice shall be issued by a member of the Police
Department of the village for every vehicle parked, stopped, permitted to
stand, equipped, used, driven or operated in violation of the traffic code of
the village. In case of a traffic violation involving a vehicle, if a police
officer is able to find the driver or other person in charge thereof without
leaving the immediate vicinity of said vehicle, said traffic violation notice
shall be delivered to such person, but if the officer is unable to find the
person driving or in charge of said vehicle in the immediate vicinity, he or
she shall fasten or cause to be fastened said traffic violation notice upon the
windshield, side window or cab of said vehicle in a place where the same is
clearly visible to a person entering or driving or in charge of said vehicle.
   (B)   A member of the Police Department of the village issuing a traffic or
parking violation notice shall, in writing, indicate on each traffic or parking
violation notice issued by him or her the time and location and type of
violation for which such traffic or parking violation notice is issued, the
section of the code of the village violated, the type of vehicle involved in
the violation, the state license number of said vehicle and, if known, the name
and address and operator’s license number of the person to whom such state
license was issued or who was responsible for the violation in question, and
such other information as such member of the Police Department of the village
may deem necessary or important.
   (C)   Every member of the Police Department of the village shall, upon
issuing a notice of traffic or parking violation in the manner and form
prescribed in this subchapter, in writing, identify himself or herself on such
notice as the officer issuing the same and shall retain and deliver to his or
her superior officer in the Police Department, or to such other person as may
be designated by the Board of the village, a duplicate of such traffic or
parking violation notice.
(Prior Code, § 74.002) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.32 ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; REGISTERED OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   Whenever a vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of this traffic
code, the registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the violation, as well
as the vehicle itself and the actual operator thereof, shall be presumed to
have committed the violation and shall thereby be liable as set forth in this
traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 74.003) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.33 IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any vehicle parked or occupying any portion of any street or alley
within the limits of the village in violation of any provision of this traffic
code shall be and the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance, which shall be
abated by any police officer by the following procedure:
      (1)   By placing a notice of traffic violation upon said vehicle as
hereinabove set forth, which indicates the nature of the violation, such act
being deemed under this provision of the code of the village to constitute
impoundment of the vehicle; or
      (2)   By placing a notice of traffic or parking violation upon said
vehicle as hereinabove set forth, and removing and conveying said vehicle to a
vehicle pound.
   (B)   The determination of which of the two preceding methods of impoundment
of a vehicle in violation of a provision of this traffic code is to be followed
in a given situation shall rest in the discretion of the officer issuing said
notice, in accordance with the policy set forth by the members of the Board of
the village and the Chief of Police of the village.
(Prior Code, § 74.004) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.34 “VEHICLE POUND” DEFINED.
   A VEHICLE POUND is hereby declared to be any suitable place so designated by
the Board of the village as a vehicle pound, upon passage of a resolution by
the members of said Board, or any private towing company utilized by the
Sangamon County Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 74.005) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-
2009)
§ 70.35 REMOVAL FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner or authorized operator, upon proper showing of ownership or
authorization of an impounded vehicle, may have the vehicle removed from the
impoundment upon payment of the penalties imposed by the provision of the code
of the village, which violation gave rise to said impoundment and upon said
person paying all costs and expenses which have been incurred by the village
for the towage and/or storage of said vehicle; and upon payment of all fines
and penalties due and owing to the village as a result of previous traffic and/
or parking violations involving said vehicle and all impounding fees, towage
and storage charges which have theretofore accrued against such vehicle during
the time of his or her ownership or authorized operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 74.006) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.36 LIABILITY FOR IMPOUNDMENT CHARGES AND TOWING FEES.
   The village shall be liable to the person towing and/or storing a vehicle
pursuant to order or request of a member of the Police Department of the
village, incurred pursuant to the provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 74.007) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.37 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Within 15 days after a vehicle has been impounded by seizure, as
provided for in §
70.33 of this chapter, under authority of this chapter, the Board of the
village may direct that a suit be brought in the name of the village for the
collection of all penalties due as a result of parking or traffic violations,
as set forth herein, as well as all impounding fees, towage and storage charges
that have accrued against said vehicle.
   (B)   Said suit shall be brought against the owner and/or authorized
operator of said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.008) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.38 ADDITIONAL REMEDY BY COMPLAINT.
   In all instances where a violation has occurred of the traffic or parking
regulations provided for in this traffic code, the village may prosecute the
registered owner and/or authorized operator of the vehicle involved in the
violation, by complaint filed before any Magistrate of the county, which remedy
shall be in addition to any and all other remedies for violations provided in
this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 74.009) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.39 PAYMENT OF PENALTY DUE.
   (A)   The registered owner or authorized operator of any vehicle issued a
traffic or parking violation notice for violating any of the traffic or parking
provisions of this traffic code, may, upon payment of the fine or penalty
imposed by the section violated within seven days of the issuance of such
notice of traffic or parking violation, avoid further action by the village in
regard to that specific violation. Upon payment of the fine or penalty
prescribed by the section violated, the registered owner or authorized operator
shall surrender to the Treasurer of the village, or such person as designated
by him or her, the traffic or parking violation notice delivered to him or her
or placed upon said vehicle, after indicating upon said notice his or her name,
street address and city of residence.
   (B)   If the registered owner or authorized operator of the vehicle charged
with a traffic or parking violation fails to pay the amount prescribed by the
section violated within seven days of said violation, he or she may, upon
payment of double (twice) the amount specified in the section violated, as
hereinabove set forth, avoid further action by the village.
(Prior Code, § 74.010) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.40 RECEIPTS FOR PAYMENT.
   The Treasurer of the village or such city employee designated by him or her
shall receive the payment of any sum of money by a registered owner or operator
of a vehicle charged with violating any traffic or parking provisions of this
traffic code, and shall issue to such person making said prescribed payment, a
receipt therefor, bearing the signature of the person receiving said money on
behalf of the village, and the date of payment, and the number of the notice of
violation for which payment is received. A duplicate receipt, together with the
money paid to such Treasurer or other designated city employee of the village,
shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer, and shall be by him or her
credited to the fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 74.011) (Ord. 74-002, passed 3-19-1974)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
70.15 and
70.16 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $250, for
each offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of
Ch. 73, Schd. I, of this title shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than
$250, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.999) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952; Ord. 126, passed - -1960)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibited parking
   
71.02   Parking near hydrant
   
71.03   When condition of vehicle prohibits parking
   
71.04   Parking near entrances to multi-family structures
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
signal:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   Within 20 feet of any intersection;
   (C)   In any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
extent of the roadway to moving traffic of less than 18 feet;
   (D)   On any sidewalk or parkway; and
   (E)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING NEAR HYDRANT.
   No vehicle shall be allowed to stand or be parked within 15 feet of a
hydrant.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303) (Prior Code, § 72.002) (Ord. 74, passed 5-22-1950)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 WHEN CONDITION OF VEHICLE PROHIBITS PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon a street or alley:
   (A)   A vehicle displayed for sale;
   (B)   A vehicle without proper license plates;
   (C)   An abandoned vehicle; or
   (D)   A vehicle jacked up off of its wheels.
(Prior Code, § 72.003) (Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952; Ord. 168, passed 1-16-1967)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARKING NEAR ENTRANCES TO MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle along a public street
or alley in a location which is:
   (A)   Within 25 feet of any part of a driveway or other entrance from such
public street or alley to any structure, or any group of structures on a single
zoning lot, which contains four or more dwelling units; and
   (B)   On the same side of the street or alley and such driveway or other
entrance.
(Prior Code, § 72.004) (Ord. 2003-004, passed 2-3-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
71.01 or
71.03 of this chapter shall be fined $5 for each offense.
      (2)   A vehicle parked or occupying any portion of any street or alley in
violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance and shall be abated by
the village by impounding such vehicle at a suitable place at owner’s expense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
71.02 of this chapter shall be fined $10 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of parking in a disability parking zone in
violation of
Ch. 74, Schd. V of this code shall be fined the sum of $250. The village may
also elect to bring disability parking zone cases under state law, which
provides for higher fines for second and subsequent offenses.
(Prior Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 74, passed 5-22-1950; Ord. 83, passed 7-7-1952;
Ord. 168, passed 1-16-1967; Ord. 74-004, passed 3-19-1974; Ord. 17-027, passed
10-16-2017)
CHAPTER 72: SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
72.01   Declaration of emergency
   
72.02   Maintenance of signs or markers
   
72.03   Parking on snow emergency streets prohibited
   
72.04   Resumption of parking
   
72.05   Towing and storage charges of vehicles in violation of snow emergency
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President or, in the absence of the Village President,
the Chief of Police determines that an emergency exists or is imminently
forecast in the village, or in a section or sections thereof, because of snow,
freezing rain, sleet, ice, snowdrifts or other natural phenomena which create
hazardous road conditions impeding or likely to impede the free movement of
fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular traffic threatening the
safety and welfare of the community, the Village President may declare a snow
emergency to exist for a period of 72 hours or less. Said declaration of
emergency shall be released to the public information media prior to its effect
and shall be posted on the door of the Village Hall. The emergency declaration
may be extended or renewed as conditions warrant.
(Prior Code, § 77.001) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-
2009)
§ 72.02 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS OR MARKERS.
   The Director of Public Works shall place and maintain all snow emergency
signs or markers required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 77.003) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-
2009)
§ 72.03 PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY STREETS PROHIBITED.
   Upon the declaration of a snow emergency, the parking, standing or leaving
of any vehicles upon the snow emergency streets designated in
Schedule VII of Chapter 73 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 77.004) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESUMPTION OF PARKING.
   Parking may be resumed on individual streets upon termination of the
emergency condition as soon as final plowing, as announced by the Director of
Public Works, has been completed on that street.
(Prior Code, § 77.006) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 72.05 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   The owners of vehicles parked in violation of a snow emergency declaration
shall be responsible for all towing and storage charges and administrative fees
unless the location at which the vehicle was parked was not properly marked as
a snow emergency route in accordance with this chapter, without regard to
whether or not actual notice of the declaration was received by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 77.007) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   If any vehicle is parked, abandoned or left standing in violation of the
terms of this chapter, the same shall be considered a hazard and may be
impounded and issued a citation.
(Prior Code, § 77.005) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   School street closings
      
III.   Weight restrictions
      
IV.   Stop streets
      
V.   “U” turns
      
VI.   Yield signs
      
VII.   Snow emergency routes
      
VIII.   One-way streets
      
IX.   School speed zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit for all vehicles (as that term is defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code) within the corporate limits of the village shall be 30 mph,
except:
   (A)   In the following locations, where the speed limit shall be 35 mph:
      (1)   On Riverton Road, between 7th Street and village limits of the
village;
      (2)   On Oak Crest Road, between the intersection of Oak Crest Road and
South Camp Butler Road and the Interstate 72 bridge;
      (3)   Overpass Road, from Old U.S. 36 south to the village limits.
   (B)   In the following locations, where the speed limit shall be 25 mph:
      (1)   Johnson Lane;
      (2)   4th Street between 3rd Street and Johnson Lane;
      (3)   Bice Lane between 5th Street and 4th Street; and
      (4)   5th Street between Lincoln Street and Bice Lane.
   (C)   In the following locations, where the speed limit shall be 20 mph:
      (1)   Tranquilli Lane; and
      (2)   RAC Drive.
(Prior Code, § 70.010) (Ord. 75-008, passed 7-15-1975; Ord. 99-052, passed 12-
20-1999; Ord. 2007-012, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 14-011, passed 6-16-2014; Ord.
17-026, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 24-06, passed 3-4-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SCHOOL STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The street closing set forth below is hereby approved between the
hours of 8:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., only on days that Riverton Unit School
District No. 14 is in session and Riverton Elementary School is open:
 
Street            Between
Washington Street 6th Street and 7th Street
 
   (B)   The Riverton Unit School District No. 14 shall be responsible for
seeing that adequate barricades and warning signs are placed at the appropriate
street corners to protect the public. In addition, the Riverton Unit School
District No. 14 shall be responsible for seeing that said barricades and
warning signs are removed at the appropriate times.
   (C)   Any person traveling or operating an authorized vehicle on the
aforesaid stated street during the times set forth in division (A) above shall
be deemed in violation of this schedule and subject to penalties set forth in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 70.011) (Ord. 82-001, passed 1-5-1982; Ord. 13-014, passed 6-17-
2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   For other regulations regarding schools, see
Ch. 73, Sch.VIII, and
Sch. IX
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Seasonal weight restriction on Riverton Road.
      (1)   During the time period of January 15 through April 15 of any year,
it shall be unlawful, except as set forth in division (B) below, to operate any
vehicle (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code) on Riverton Road within the
corporate limits of the village when the weight of such vehicle, together with
its load, exceeds 15 tons (30,000 pounds).
      (2)   Parking or possessing a vehicle in a location which could only be
reached by operating the vehicle in violation of division (A)(1) above shall be
deemed a violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.020)
   (B)   Exceptions. The weight limitation set forth in division (A) above
shall not apply to school buses, moving vans or garbage trucks in the service
of a village resident or business located in the village; to state, county or
municipally owned vehicles, or vehicles used in the maintenance or repair of
streets or utilities within the village; nor to vehicles making deliveries of
goods to persons or businesses located within the village when no alternate
route is available.
(Prior Code, § 70.021)
   (C)   Signs. Signs conforming to the requirements of the Illinois Department
of Transportation giving notice of the foregoing seasonal weight limitation
shall be posted on Riverton Road where it intersects the east boundary of the
village and on its western terminus at 7th Street.
(Prior Code, § 70.022)
   (D)   Penalty; enforcement.
      (1)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver (or owner, if the vehicle
is parked) to stop and exhibit evidence of the gross vehicle weight of the
vehicle. If the gross vehicle weight exceeds 15 tons, the officer may issue a
citation for violation of this section. If the gross vehicle weight is less
than 15 tons, but the officer has reason to believe that the weight of the
vehicle and its load together exceed 15 tons, then the officer may require the
driver or owner to submit to a weighing of the same either by means of a
portable or stationary scales. If such scales are not available at the place
where such vehicle is stopped, the police officer shall require that such
vehicle be driven to the nearest available scale that has been tested and
approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   Any person violating divisions (A), (B), (C) or (D)(1) above,
whether by violating the weight limitation herein or by refusing the lawful
order of a police officer to submit to a weighing of a vehicle, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $250, nor more than
$750.
(Prior Code, § 70.023)
   (E)   Damage to Riverton Road caused by overweight vehicles. In accordance
with § 15-318 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, any person damaging Riverton Road
by operation of a vehicle in violation of the weight limitations set forth
herein shall be liable to the village, in addition to any other penalties, for
the damage caused thereby. When an owner of such a vehicle is not the driver,
the owner shall be jointly and severally liable with the driver.
(Prior Code, § 70.024)
(Ord. 99-053, passed 12-20-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. STOP STREETS.
Street Stop At
Street                                                  Stop At
Going north on 6th Street                               Washington Street
Going south on 6th Street                               Jefferson Street
Going north on 5th Street                               Jefferson Street
Going south on 5th Street                               Jefferson Street
Going north on 4th Street                               Jefferson Street
Going south on 4th Street                               Jefferson Street
Going north on 10th Street                              Adams Street
Going south on 10th Street                              Adams Street
Going south on 10th Street                              Washington Street
Going east on Washington Street                         6th Street
Going west on Washington Street                         6th Street
Going east on Washington Street                         3rd Street
Going west on Adams Street                              3rd Street
Going west on Jamestown Circle                          3rd Street
Going east on Madison Street                            3rd Street
Going east on Kinzie Street                             3rd Street
Going east on Blackburn Street                          3rd Street
Going south on 4th Street                               Menard Street
Going north on 5th Street                               Menard Street
Going south on 5th Street                               Menard Street
Going north on 6th Street                               Menard Street
Going south on 6th Street                               Menard Street
Going west on Washington Street                         3rd Street
Going east on Jefferson Street                          3rd Street
Going west on Jefferson Street                          3rd Street
Going north on 3rd Street                               Jefferson Street
Going north on 5th Street                               Washington Street
Going south on 5th Street                               Washington Street
Going south on 3rd Street                               4th Street
Going south on 1st Street                               Lincoln Street
Going north on 4th Street                               3rd Street
Going west on Johnson Lane                              3rd Street
Going east on North Horseshoe Drive                     3rd Street
Going east on South Horseshoe Drive                     3rd Street
Going south on 5th Street                               Spaulding Street
Going north on 3rd Street                               Menard Street
Going east on Menard Street                             3rd Street
Going west on Menard Street                             3rd Street
Going west on Menard Street                             7th Street
Going north on 10th Street                              Kinzie Street
Going east on Madison Street                            10th Street
Going east on Adams Street                              10th Street
Going south on West Hilltop Drive                       Kinzie Street
Going south on East Hilltop Drive                       Kinzie Street
Going south on 4th Street                               Adams Street
Going east on Hoover Street                             3rd Street
Going west on Blackburn Street                          5th Street
Going south on 2nd Street                               Menard Street
Going south on Mueller Court                            Powell Street
Going west on Powell Street                             3rd Street
Going west on Madison Street                            5th Street
Going west on Jackson Street                            5th Street
Going west on Adams Street                              5th Street
Going east on Adams Street                              5th Street
Going south on 2nd Street                               Washington Street
Going north on 2nd Street                               Jefferson Street
Going north on 2nd Street                               Menard Street
Going south on Beverly Drive                            Washington Street
Going east on Grant Street                              3rd Street
Going south on 5th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going south on 6th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going south on 7th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going south on 8th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going east on Lincoln Street                            7th Street
Going west on Lincoln Street                            7th Street
Going north on 6th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going north on 8th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going north on 9th Street                               Lincoln Street
Going east on Washington Street                         10th Street
Going west on Washington Street                         10th Street
Going east on Brook Lane                                7th Street
Going south on Douglas Avenue                           Old Route 36
Going north on Douglas Avenue                           Kinzie Street
Going west on New Kinzie Street                         10th Street
Going west on Breann Drive                              North 7th Street
Intersection of Stanton Avenue and Lincoln Street       Stanton
Intersection of Stanton Avenue and Washington           Stanton
Turning onto Riverton Road from Village Hall            All exit points
Turning onto 3rd Street from parking lot of Center Park Both exit points
Turning onto 5th Street from parking lot of Center Park Exit point
Going north on RAC Drive                                Lincoln Street
Going north on Tranquilli Lane                          Lincoln Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. I) (Ord. 98-032, passed 6-15-1998; Ord. 2000-003,
passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 2001-020, passed 11-15-2001; Ord. 02-014, passed 5-6-
2002; Ord. 2004-025, passed 8-2-2004; Ord. 2008-033, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 17-
026, passed 9-18-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. “U” TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful to make a “U” turn in the following intersections:
   (A)   3rd Street and Jefferson Street; and
   (B)   4th Street and Jefferson Street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. II) (Ord. 89-013, passed 10-3-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. YIELD SIGNS.
 
Street                     Yield to
Going west on Johnson Lane North and south traffic on 4th Street
Going west on Bice Lane    North and south traffic on 4th Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 71, Schd. III) (Ord. 94-033, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   All such streets shall be posted with suitable signs or markers at
intervals not exceeding 500 feet, which signs or markers shall bear the words
“SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE” and also indicate where parking would otherwise exist
that parking is prohibited during a snow emergency.
   (B)   The following streets are designated as snow emergency routes:
      (1)   Jamestown Drive;
      (2)   5th Street in Jamestown;
      (3)   Carl Street;
      (4)   Johnson Lane;
      (5)   Bice Lane;
      (6)   South 4th Street;
      (7)   South 5th Street;
      (8)   Beverly Hills Drive;
      (9)   Spring Street;
      (10)   Brook Street;
      (11)   Allen Street;
      (12)   Mueller Court;
      (13)   Powell Drive;
      (14)   Lucky Horseshoe Mobile Home Park;
      (15)   Ivy Hill/Coyland Drive;
      (16)   Kinzie Street from bridge to 10th Street;
      (17)   Lydia Lane;
      (18)   Breann Drive;
      (19)   Jesse Scott Drive;
      (20)   Dina Drive;
      (21)   Dawson Circle; and
      (22)   Stanton Street.
(Prior Code, § 77.002) (Ord. 98-001, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-
2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The street set forth below is hereby designated as a one-way street
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., only on days that Riverton Unit
School District No. 14 is in session and Riverton Elementary School is open:
 
Street                           Between
Washington Street traveling West 6th Street and 7th Street
 
   (B)   The street set forth below is hereby designated as a one-way street
between the hours of 1:30 pm. and 3:00 p.m., only on days that Riverton Unit
School District No. 14 is in session and Riverton Elementary School is open:
 
Street                           Between
Washington Street traveling West 6th Street and 7th Street
 
   (C)   Riverton Unit School District No. 14 shall be responsible for seeing
that adequate barricades and warning signs are placed at the appropriate street
corners to protect the public. In addition, Riverton Unit School District No.
14 shall be responsible for seeing that said barricades and warning signs are
removed at the appropriate times.
   (D)   Any person traveling or operating an authorized vehicle on the
aforesaid stated streets during the times set forth in division (A) of this
section shall be deemed in violation of this section and subject to penalties
set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 13-014, passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   For other regulations regarding schools, see Ch. 73, Sch. II and Sch. IX 
SCHEDULE IX. SCHOOL SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   The following are school speed zones:
 
Location                                     Direction
Northwest corner of Jefferson Street and 6th Southbound on 6th Street
Street
Northwest corner of Jefferson Street and 7th Westbound on Jefferson Street
Street
Southeast corner of Jefferson Street and 5th Eastbound on Jefferson Street
Street
 
   (B)   The Street Department shall procure and place signs in these
designated locations.
   (C)   This section is effective upon its passage and publication.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-22-2013)
Cross-reference:
   For other school related regulations, see
Ch. 73, Sch. II and
Sch. VIII
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Limited parking
      
III.   Parallel parking
      
IV.   Combination parking
      
V.   Disabled parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park
any motor vehicle within the areas indicated below:
Street Between
Street            Between
2nd Street        Both sides from Blackburn Street to Menard Street
3rd Street        West side from Madison Street to the railroad crossing
                  West side from Menard Street to Blackburn Street
4th Street        From Old Route 36 to a point 600 feet north of Old Route 36
5th Street        Both sides from railroad stacks to Menard Street
                  East side from Spaulding Street and Carl Drive
                  East side between Adams Street and Jefferson Street
6th Street        On the east side from the intersection with Washington Street
                  and going 118 feet south until it reaches the driveway
                  entrance for St. James Church
                  Both sides from Piza Street to Madison Street
7th Street        East side from Madison Street to Lincoln Street
                  West side from Washington Street to Lincoln Street
Adams Street      North side from 3rd Street to 4th Street
Blackburn Street  Both sides from 2nd Street to 3rd Street
Blackburn Street  Both sides, from 5th Street to the east to the end of the
                  street
                  On the west side of Ivy Hill Drive from a point located 566
Ivy Hill Drive    feet from the intersection with 7th Street to a point 222
                  feet from the intersection of Coyland Drive and 7th Street
Jefferson Street  South side from 7th Street to a point 100 feet west of 7th
                  Street
                  Both sides from 7th Street to the bridge in the 800 block of
Kinzie Street     Kinzie Street
                  South side from the aforementioned bridge to 10th Street
Lydia Lane        From 9th Street to a point 95 feet west on 9th Street
Madison Street    South side from 7th Street to 10th Street
Menard Street     Both sides from River Road to 3rd Street
Piza Street       Both sides, from 7th Street to the west to the end of the
                  street
Riverton Road     North 7th Street and the eastern corporate limits of the
                  village
Spaulding Street  South side from 5th Street and 6th Street
Washington Street South side from 6th Street to 7th Street
 
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle with the left side of such
vehicle next to the curb on any of the following named streets:
         (a)   3rd Street;
         (b)   7th Street; and
         (c)   Jefferson Street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. I)
   (B)   Parking of motor vehicles, except for such emergency vehicles as are
necessary for the maintenance and health of the village, for fire prevention
and police protection, is hereby forbidden on both sides of 5th Street between
Menard Street and the Norfolk and Western Railroad tracks located in the
village.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. IV)
(Ord. 92-006, passed 7-21-1992; Ord. 97-001, passed 1-6-1997; Ord. 98-006,
passed 2-16-1998; Ord. 99-033, passed 8-16-1999; Ord. 2002-033, passed 10-21-
2002; Ord. 2004-030, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2006-015, passed 7-17-2006; Ord.
2007-034, passed 11-19-2007; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-2009; Ord. 13-014, passed
6-17-2013; Ord. 24-16, passed 5-20-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, for a period of time longer than
specified, on any of the following named streets:
 
Street                Location                     Time Limit
                      From railroad tracks to      2-hour parking between 8:00
3rd Street, east side Menard Street                a.m to 3:00 p.m., Monday
                                                   through Friday
                      From railroad tracks to      2-hour parking between 8:00
3rd Street, west side Blackburn Street             a.m to 3:00 p.m., Monday
                                                   through Friday
                                                   30-minute parking for
Jefferson Street      In front of 313 East         loading only between 8:00
                      Jefferson Street             a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday
                                                   through Friday
                                                   Can only be used for bus
                                                   loading and unloading
                                                   between the hours of 7:00
                      On the south side from the   a.m. and 5:00 p.m. only on
                      intersection with 7th Street days that Riverton Unit
Jefferson Street      and going from 7th Street to School District No. 14 is in
                      5th Street                   session and Riverton
                                                   Elementary School is open.
                                                   Violators may be towed at
                                                   the discretion of the Chief
                                                   of Police
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. II) (Ord. 92-006, passed 7-21-1992; Ord. 01-028,
passed 12-17-2001; Ord. 2008-032, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 09-025, passed 8-3-
2009; Ord. 13-014, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 19-041, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. PARALLEL PARKING.
   Motor vehicles may be parked on any of the following named streets as long
as the vehicle is parked parallel to and immediately adjacent to the curb:
 
Street                Between
7th Street, west side Spaulding Street to Lincoln Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. III) (Ord. 92-006, passed 7-21-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. COMBINATION PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a truck (except those licensed by the state with
a B license classification), a bus having a rated seating capacity of 20 or
more passengers, farm equipment, construction equipment, trailers or any motor
homes of any description or use on any public street.
   (B)   No person shall park, stop or stand any truck tractor or trailer upon
private property when such property is located in a zoned residential area.
   (C)   This schedule shall not apply to trailers used by contractors for the
purpose of construction in a given area. Parking of these trailers must be
approved by the Village Board of Trustees prior to their being placed.
   (D)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. V) (Ord. 91-015, passed 10-1-1991; Ord. 09-025,
passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. DISABLED PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with § 11-1301.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, which is herein
adopted by reference, no person other than a person displaying a valid disabled
registration plate or placard may park in a parking place reserved for persons
with disabilities, which shall be in the following places in the village and
which shall be marked with a disabled parking zone sign:
 
Street         Location
Riverton Road  In front of Village Hall, as marked
Not applicable In village parks in various locations as marked
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Schd. VI) (Ord. 98-006, passed 2-16-1998; Ord. 01-015,
passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 2008-032, passed 10-6-2008; Ord. 17-027, passed 10-16-
2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Exercise of certain powers
   
90.03   Keeping of certain animals prohibited
   
90.04   Inoculation of dogs; inoculation tag affixed to collars
   
90.05   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
90.06   Duration of inoculation
   
90.07   Exhibition of certificate on request
   
90.08   Restraint of dogs and other animals
   
90.09   Animals as nuisances
   
90.10   Keeping animals
   
90.11   Biting animals
   
90.12   Confinement; warning of dangerous animals
   
90.13   Killing or attacking animals
   
90.14   Cruelty to animals
   
90.15   Cock fighting; dog fighting
   
90.16   Dead animals
   
90.17   Injured animals; animals found dead on public ways
   
90.18   Interference with enforcement
   
90.19   Authority to impound animals and enter onto private property
   
90.20   Impoundment of dogs or other animals which have bitten persons
   
90.21   Notice to owners or keepers of impoundment and violation
   
90.22   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.23   Disposition of animals
   
90.24   Excrement removal required
Dangerous, Vicious Animals
   
90.35   Vicious dogs, animals
   
90.36   Dangerous dog, animal determination
   
90.37   Dangerous dog; leash
   
90.38   Dangerous dog; appeal
Keeping of Chickens
   
90.50   Pilot program for keeping of chickens approved
   
90.51   Compliance with regulations required
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all terms have the same meaning as in the
Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed by County
Animal Control or, in the event a veterinarian cannot be found and appointed, a
non-veterinarian may serve as ADMINISTRATOR under this chapter. In the event
the ADMINISTRATOR is not a veterinarian, the ADMINISTRATOR shall defer to a
veterinarian regarding all medical decisions.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, other than a human, which may be affected by
rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Administrator to perform
the duties set forth in the Animal Control Act, and those designated by the
Chief of Police whose duty it is to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal not under restraint, as defined herein.
   BITE. To seize with the teeth or jaws so that the person or animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further includes contact of
saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   CAT. All members of the family Felidae.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Village Police Department.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building, house or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   COUNTY. Sangamon County, Illinois.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL PERSONNEL. Personnel who are employed by the county to
take up domestic animals and transport them to the county pound, or take up
wild animals and dispose of them in accordance with the procedures of the
County Animal Control Department.
   COUNTY POUND. The animal pound operated by the County Animal Control
Department.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog, when unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended
by its owner or custodian, that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person
would believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious
physical injury or death to a person or a companion animal in a public place.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an ENCLOSURE, suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the ENCLOSURE. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a
residence, the dog must be locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move about
freely within the entire residence if it is muzzled at all times.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that:
      (1)   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat
and is not socialized; or
      (2)   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized or lives on a farm.
   FIGHT. A prearranged conflict between or among two or more animals, but does
not include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public Animal Control facility in
the city, town or county where the animal is found.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the canine anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Department.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap or other such physical restraint having a
tensile strength of not less than 300 pounds.
   LIVESTOCK. Domesticated animals that can be used for food, fiber and labor,
including, but not limited to, all species, breeds and varieties of swine,
sheep, cattle, ponies, goats, horses, asses, mules and llamas, including such
all animals kept as pets. LIVESTOCK includes rabbits unless kept only as pets,
and does not include cats and dogs.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or a metal muzzle,
made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but will prevent the dog from biting any person or
animal.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin or tissue.
   OWNER or KEEPER. A person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps
or harbors such animal, who cares for or who acts as its custodian or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such
person.
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department or agency’s work.
   POLICE OFFICER. The Chief of Police of the village, any police officer
employed by the village or any police officer from another jurisdiction
operating in the village under a mutual aid agreement or under the direction of
the Chief of Police of the village.
   POULTRY. All birds that can be raised for meat or eggs, including, but not
limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, peacocks, quail, turkeys and
ostriches and other ratites, and whether kept for eggs or meat, as pets or
otherwise.
   POUND or ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. May be used interchangeably and means any
facility approved by the Administrator for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or
unwanted dogs or other animals.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. The entranceway of a residence or other building closest to
the public street or sidewalk or one which would be reasonably perceived by the
public to be the entrance to the dwelling available for public use.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this chapter.
   RESTRAINT.
      (1)   An animal is under RESTRAINT if it is:
         (a)   Attached to a leash held by a responsible person;
         (b)   Attached to a structure or fixture in such a manner that it is
unable to reach beyond the limits of the owner’s or keeper’s property and is
unable to reach or molest service persons or casual visitors to the owner’s or
keeper’s property using the public entrance or persons placing mail in the
mailbox or delivering newspapers at the request of the owners;
         (c)   Enclosed in a fenced yard from which it is unable to escape
without assistance from a person; or
         (d)   On the property of its owner or keeper authorized by the owner
and under voice command.
      (2)   Herding of animals, and tethering of animals for grazing purposes
is not UNDER RESTRAINT, as defined herein.
   RODENTS. All animals members of the Rodentia order, except hamsters, guinea
pigs and mice when kept as pets.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” upon three separate occasions.
   WORKING DAY. Any day when the office or public entity referred to was open
for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-1) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 12-002, passed 2-
20-2012)
§ 90.02 EXERCISE OF CERTAIN POWERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, police officers and the Village President shall
have the exclusive power to request County Animal Control personnel to take up
and transport animals in accordance with this chapter and in accordance with
contractual arrangements with the county.
   (B)   Police officers on duty shall have the additional authority to take up
and temporarily detain vicious animals and animals running at large pending the
arrival of County Animal Control personnel.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-2) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.03 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except for horsekeeping as permitted in §
157.026 of this code of ordinances, the keeping of livestock and poultry within
the corporate limits of the village is prohibited.
   (B)   The keeping of rodents and undomesticated animals anywhere within the
village is prohibited.
   (C)   The keeping of more than three dogs or three cats on one zoning lot
within the village is prohibited; provided, this division (C) does not apply to
a litter of pups or kittens less than five months of age.
   (D)   The keeping of animals within the corporate limits of the village in
violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-3) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 12-002, passed 2-
20-2012; Ord. 15-028, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Pilot program for keeping of chickens, see §§
90.50 and
90.51
§ 90.04 INOCULATION OF DOGS; INOCULATION TAG AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be promulgated by
the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog which is four
months of age or older shall cause such dog to be inoculated against rabies.
Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag evidencing
such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the dog at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-4) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of dogs required by this chapter shall be performed by
a veterinarian, duly licensed to practice in the state or in the state where
the inoculation occurred. On performing such inoculation, such veterinarian
shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate of such fact.
   (B)   Each owner or keeper is responsible for obtaining annually from the
County Clerk a metallic tag suitable for attaching to the collar of such dog
which tag shall also certify to the fact of inoculation against rabies. The tag
shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of Agriculture
and adopted for use by the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-5) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.04 of this chapter shall be effective until the expiration of a calendar
year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of
time as may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-6) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.07 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE ON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time, on request of any member of the Police Department or
Animal Control Officer, the owner or keeper of any dog shall exhibit any
current, valid certificate, required under the provisions of this code,
certifying the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or kept by him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-7) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.08 RESTRAINT OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   Owners and keepers of dogs and other animals shall keep the dogs and other
animals under restraint at all times and shall not permit such dogs and other
animals to be at large. Any animal found running at large contrary to
provisions of this chapter may be apprehended and impounded.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-8) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMALS AS NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal shall not suffer or permit the animal
to bark, howl, cry or make other distressing or loud or unusual noise or to
disturb the peace or quiet of any place, neighborhood, family or person in the
village. The disturbing of any neighborhood or persons by any such animal is
declared to be a nuisance, and no person shall suffer or permit any such
nuisance to exist.
   (B)   In addition to the general restrictions of division (A) above, for the
purpose of this section, an owner or keeper is in violation of this section if
he or she permits a dog to bark in a substantially continuous manner between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. for a period of more than 15 minutes, or
who allows such animal to bark, howl or cry for numerous periods of time,
regardless of duration, so as to disturb the quiet of the neighborhood or of
particular neighbors.
   (C)   In case any animal shall repeatedly disturb the peace or quiet of any
place or neighborhood or become a nuisance as defined in this code, the Village
Police Department may contact Animal Control to remove the animal for placement
in the county animal pound.
   (D)   The owner may redeem the animal from the county animal pound pursuant
to §
90.22 of this chapter. Failure to redeem the animal will result in its
disposition pursuant to §
90.23 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-9) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   No person shall house or keep animals in any pen, stable, yard, confinement
structure or any other place in such a manner that associated debris or odors
are unreasonably offensive to persons residing in the vicinity or passing along
any nearby street or alley, or constitute a hazard to the health of persons
residing nearby. Any pen, stable, yard, confinement structure or other place
where animals are housed or kept in violation of this section is declared to be
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-10) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 BITING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of an animal shall suffer, permit or fail to prevent an
animal from biting or attacking a person or another animal resulting in injury
to the person or animal attacked; provided that, such an attack on a person who
is, or reasonably appears to be, in the commission of a criminal act is not
prohibited if the animal is acting in the defense of the owner or keeper of his
or her family or premises, and the animal remains on its premises. For purposes
of this section, it is not necessary that the person bitten or attacked be
arrested or convicted of a criminal offense.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-11) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CONFINEMENT; WARNING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the village an animal known to be
dangerous or vicious, unless such person shall keep such animal safely and
securely confined so as to protect from injury any child or other person who
may come on the premises in the vicinity where such animal may be located.
Adequate warning by sign, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons coming on
the premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous animal.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-12) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 KILLING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as permitted in § 130.023 of this code of ordinances, no
person shall kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound by the use of a firearm,
sling shot, bow and arrow, BB gun, air rifle or any other dangerous weapon, any
animal within the village limits; provided that, this section shall not
prohibit a person from defending himself or herself or another from attack by
an animal.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit the use of a weapon by a police
officer to destroy animals which are seriously injured to avoid unnecessary
suffering or in self-defense or defense of others.
   (B)   Any owner seeing his or her livestock, poultry or equidae being
injured, wounded or killed by a dog, not accompanied by or not under the
supervision of its owner, may kill such dog.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-13) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 15-023, passed
8-3-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall commit acts of cruelty to animals.
   (B)   The following acts shall be deemed to be examples of cruelty to
animals and are not intended to be a complete list of acts which may constitute
cruelty: (Doctors of veterinary medicine, in the performance of their
profession, are not subject to the provisions of this section.)
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating or killing any animal or causing or knowingly allowing
the same to be done;
      (2)   Cruelly working any old, maimed, injured, sick or disabled animal
or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
      (3)   Failing to provide any animal in one’s charge or custody, as owner
or keeper, with proper food, drink, shelter, air, sanitation or medical care;
and/or
      (4)   Abandoning any animal without making provisions for its care and
feeding.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-14) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 COCK FIGHTING; DOG FIGHTING.
   No person shall use or keep animals or be, in any way, connected with the
management of any place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any
dogs, cocks or other animals or permit such place to be kept or used on
premises owned or controlled by such persons.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-15) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal shall be responsible for the disposal
of such animal’s remains upon its death, from whatever cause, and regardless of
the location of the remains of such animals.
   (B)   Animals remains shall be disposed of:
      (1)   By burial beneath at least 18 inches of compacted soil on the
property of the animal’s owner or keeper, or any other location with the
express permission of the owner of the property;
      (2)   By or through the county animal pound;
      (3)   By or through a licensed veterinarian; and/or
      (4)   By action of the Police Department.
   (C)   The Police Department may issue a written notice to any owner or
keeper who has failed to properly dispose of the remains of an animal as
prescribed herein. Such person shall have 24 hours from receipt of such notice
to properly dispose of such remains. The notice shall be served on the violator
personally or by leaving such notice at his or her usual place of abode with
some person of the family, of the age of 13 years or upwards and informing that
person of the contents thereof.
   (D)   The village may dispose of any animal’s remains without notice to the
owner or keeper when:
      (1)   Such remains are located on a public roadway;
      (2)   The remains are located on the property of a person other than the
owner or keeper; or
      (3)   Service of a notice on the owner or keeper is refused or not
readily possible within a short time.
   (E)   In any case where a disposal notice is required, in accordance with
division (C) above, on failure of a person served a notice to properly dispose
of such remains within the time allowed, the remains may be disposed of by an
employee of the village and all costs of such removal shall be paid by the
owner or keeper of the dead animal to the village.
   (F)   A minimum charge of $50 for each hour or part of an hour spent by
police officers or other village employees in disposing of the remains shall be
levied against the owner or keeper when the village disposes of the remains.
The village may institute legal proceedings to collect any amount owing by the
owner or keeper providing that such suit is filed within two years of the
issuance of the notice or disposal of the remains if no notice is required.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-16) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 INJURED ANIMALS; ANIMALS FOUND DEAD ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Any animal discovered injured on a public way shall be impounded or
picked up by the County Animal Control personnel, at the direction of a police
officer, and processed in accordance with the procedures of the county pound.
   (B)   When a domestic animal is discovered dead on a public way, the police
officer on duty shall attempt to ascertain its owner and shall request that the
owner dispose of the remains. If a wild animal is discovered dead on the public
way, or the officer cannot ascertain the owner of a dead domestic animal, the
officer shall notify the Street Department of the animal and the Street
Department shall dispose of the remains.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-17) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.18 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall, in any way, interfere with any person who is known to such
person to be or who identifies himself or herself to be and is in fact, a
village or county employee or other officer enforcing the provisions of this
chapter or engaged in catching or impounding any animal under the authority of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-18) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND ANIMALS AND ENTER ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officers to request the County Animal
Control personnel to take up and impound in the county animal pound any animal
found at large or any dog found in the village without inoculation tags
contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or statutes of the state.
   (B)   Police officers and County Animal Control personnel are authorized to
go on private property in order to enforce this chapter or to take up any
animal which is believed to be at large or take up any dog found without
required inoculation tags; however, such persons may not enter a private
dwelling house for this purpose without a valid warrant or the consent of the
occupant. Nor shall such persons remove an animal believed to be at large
without reasonably attempting to ascertain whether the property on which the
animal is found is owned by the owner or the authorized keeper of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-19) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog, whether under restraint or not, which shall have bitten
or otherwise injured any persons so as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall
be immediately taken by the Police Department or County Animal Control
personnel, impounded at the county pound and kept separated from other animals
for ten days. The Chief of Police and County Animal Control personnel may
reduce such period of confinement. The victim of such bite shall notify the
Police Department of the bite within 24 hours.
      (2)   If, during that period, such animal develops symptoms of illness, a
veterinarian shall diagnose its condition.
      (3)   If the symptoms disclose or are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, the animal shall be destroyed in such manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic
laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
      (4)   In case the animal cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may
be killed, care being taken to preserve the head intact, which shall be
detached and immediately delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the
Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the period of ten days, no symptoms of rabies
have developed in such animal so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the
owner or keeper on payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this
code.
   (C)   (1)   After having been notified that his or her animal has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be outside of his or her premises, except
on a leash with a responsible adult until the procedures prescribed in
divisions (A) and (B) above have been completed.
      (2)   An owner who has knowledge that his or her animal has bitten or
otherwise injured any person and knows that the Police Department or County
Animal Control center is investigating a claim shall not, under any
circumstances, trade, sell or give away the animal until such investigation is
complete.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-20) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 NOTICE TO OWNERS OR KEEPERS OF IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION.
   (A)   General. The Police Department shall make best efforts to notify the
owners or keepers of animals impounded pursuant to this chapter, if known to
them, of the fact of impoundment and the procedures for redemption of the
impounded animal. Such notification shall be independent of any citation for
ordinance violation, but may be served together with a citation for ordinance
violation. Notice shall be sufficient if substantially in the form set out in
division (B) below. Notice shall be given within 24 hours of impoundment,
either by personal service or, if the owner is not at home when service is
made, by taping the notice to the front door of the residence of the owner, if
known.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-21)
   (B)   Notice.
 
NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMAL
 
To:                                                                                                
Name and address of person believed to be animal’s owner
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the following animal has been captured and impounded:
 
Type of Animal:             Dog                  Cat                  Other
Breed:                                           
Color:                                           
Tag No., if applicable:                               
Other identifying characteristics:                                  
 
The animal was found running at large at                                        , Riverton, IL on                    , 20         at                 a.m./p.m. and was therefore captured and
impounded in accordance with the animal control provisions of the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances.
 
The Village of Riverton believes that you may be the owner of the animal. The animal may be redeemed from the Sangamon County Animal Control Center, 2100 Shale Road,
Springfield, IL 62703, after payment of impoundment fees, costs, and all applicable County charges to the Sangamon County Animal Control Center. You should pay all fees
directly to the Sangamon County Animal Control Center.
Please note that the Sangamon County Animal Control Center will require cash, certified check, or cashier’s check.
 
Dated this                      day of                                     , 20             
                                                                                     Police Officer
 
Also, please take notice of the following:
1. As set forth in § 90.21(A) of the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances, the Village of Riverton’s impoundment fee is $100. Any other violations of Ch. 90 of the
code of ordinances other than those pertaining to vicious, dangerous or biting animals shall be fined not less than $250, or more than $750, per offense.
2. Impoundment checks should be paid directly to the Sangamon County Animal Control Center.
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 90, App. A)
(Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.22 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   An animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except
an animal that may have bitten any person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be
held until it may be disposed of pursuant to §
90.23 of this chapter in order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper
thereof to redeem the same. Any owner or keeper desiring to redeem an impounded
animal shall pay an impounding fee of $100 per animal payable to the County
Animal Control Center in the form of cash, cashier’s check or money order in
addition to the fees and set forth in division (B) below.
      (2)   Prior to disposition, animals shall be held for a minimum of three
calendar days, if the owner is not known, and for a minimum of seven calendar
days, if the owner is known, in order to give the owner an opportunity to
redeem the animal. Animals which have bitten persons are subject to an
impoundment of at least ten days in the county pound.
   (B)   Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement with the village, the
county will remit the impounding fee to the village. Any owner or keeper
desiring to redeem an impounded animal shall, as a condition of release:
      (1)   Show proof of inoculation or pay the requisite deposit as set forth
in division (D) below; and
      (2)   Pay to County Animal Control Officer, or reimburse the village, for
all fees charged by the county pound or to be charged by the county pound for
responding to any and all calls with respect to the animal, picking up the
animal and boarding the animal. County Animal Control’s hourly charges and
boarding fees for impounded animals are established by the county and are
outside the village’s control.
   (C)   (1)   If the animal is in the county pound, it may be released only
upon the owner’s showing of proof of inoculation or by payment by the owner of
the county pound’s charges for inoculation.
      (2)   If the owner cannot show proof of inoculation, then, in addition to
all other charges, the owner shall pay County Animal Control the amount of
money required for inoculation, which fee is established by the county.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of an impounded animal shall pay the County Animal
Control center directly for all impoundment fees, costs and services rendered.
      (2)   In the event that the village is billed for the fees, costs and
services rendered, the village will be entitled to collect costs from the owner
in the amount of $80 per hour for each call with a minimum one hour charge and
boarding fees for impounded animals of $10 per day.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-22) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal, which has not been redeemed within the time
specified in §
90.22 of this chapter shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by
the Director of the county animal pound.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-27) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.24 EXCREMENT REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall appear with an animal upon the public ways or within
public places or upon the property of another, absent that person's consent,
without some means for the removal of excrement; nor, shall any person fail to
remove any excrement deposited by such an animal. This section shall not apply
to a blind person while walking his or her guide dog.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
$100 for the first offense and $150 for second and subsequent offenses within a
two-year period.
(Ord. 21-014, passed 6-21-2021)
DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.35 VICIOUS DOGS, ANIMALS.
   (A)   In order to have an animal deemed vicious, an Animal Control Officer,
Chief of Police or the Village Attorney must give notice of the infraction that
is the basis of the investigation to the owner. The Police Department shall
conduct a thorough investigation, interview any witnesses, including the owner,
gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or behavioral
evidence, and make a detailed report recommending a finding that the animal is
a vicious animal and give the report to the State’s Attorney’s Office and the
owner. The State’s Attorney, Village Attorney or Animal Control Officer may
file a complaint in the Circuit Court to deem a dog to be a vicious dog.
Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a Board-certified veterinary
behaviorist or another recognized expert may be relevant to the Court’s
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified. The petitioner must
prove the dog is a vicious dog by clear and convincing evidence. County Animal
Control shall determine where the animal shall be confined during the pendency
of the case. The provisions and appeal rights of this section shall be carried
out pursuant to § 15 of the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/15.
   (B)   If the dog is found to be a vicious dog, the dog shall be spayed or
neutered within ten days of the finding at the expense of its owner and
microchipped, and subject to enclosure. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall
not be released to the owner until the Animal Control Warden, or Chief of
Police, approves the enclosure. No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell
or give away the dog without Court approval. Whenever an owner of a vicious dog
relocates, he or she shall notify both the Administrator of County Animal
Control where he or she has relocated and the Administrator of County Animal
Control where he or she formerly resided.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog
which has been found to be a vicious dog unless the dog is kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
         (a)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog;
         (b)   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog’s
life is threatened; or
         (c)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that, the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding six feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence.
      (2)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Administrator, an Animal
Control Warden or the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such
area.
      (3)   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to
the Circuit Court in the county in which the animal was impounded within 15
working days, the dog may be euthanized.
      (4)   Upon filing notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be
automatically stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear
the burden of timely notification to Animal Control in writing.
      (5)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically disabled and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt from this
section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this section,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with §
8 of the Animal Control Act. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted
dog to notify the Administrator of changes of address. In the case of a sentry
or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Administrator advised of the location
where such dog will be stationed. The Administrator shall provide Police and
Fire Departments with a categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall
promptly notify such departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-23) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DANGEROUS DOG, ANIMAL DETERMINATION.
   (A)   After a thorough investigation including: sending, within three days
of the Chief of Police or Animal Control Officer becoming aware of the alleged
infraction, notifications to the owner of the alleged infractions, the fact of
the initiation of an investigation and affording the owner an opportunity to
meet with the Chief of Police or Animal Control Officer prior to the making of
a determination; gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence; interviewing
witnesses; and, making a detailed written report, an Animal Control Warden, or
Chief of Police, may ask the Administrator of County Animal Control, or his or
her designee, to deem a dog to be dangerous. No dog shall be deemed a dangerous
dog without clear and convincing evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate
notification of the determination by registered or certified mail that includes
a complete description of the appeal process.
   (B)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if the Administrator, his or her
designee, or the Director determines the conduct of the dog was justified
because:
      (1)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
an offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog;
      (2)   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting or
physically threatening the dog or its offspring;
      (3)   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian or a member of its household, kennel or offspring.
   (C)   Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a Board-certified
veterinary behaviorist or another recognized expert may be relevant to the
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   If deemed dangerous, the Administrator, or his or her designee, or the
Director shall order the dog to be spayed or neutered within 14 days at the
owner’s expense and microchipped, if not already, and one or more of the
following as deemed appropriate under the circumstances and necessary for the
protection of the public:
      (1)   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a Board-
certified veterinary behaviorist or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this division (D)(1); or
      (2)   Direct supervision by an adult 18 years of age or older whenever
the animal is on public premises.
   (E)   The Administrator or Chief of Police may order a dangerous dog to be
muzzled whenever it is on public premises in a manner that will prevent it from
biting any person or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   (1)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for
the physically disabled and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this section,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies and performing
duties as expected.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the exempted dog to notify the
Administrator of changes of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the
owner shall keep the Administrator advised of the location where such dog will
be stationed.
      (3)   The Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of the exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify the
Departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-24) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 90.37 DANGEROUS DOG; LEASH.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly permit any
dangerous dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by
leash or other recognized control methods.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-25) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 DANGEROUS DOG; APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this
chapter by an Administrator may file a complaint against the Administrator in
the Circuit Court within 35 days of receipt of notification of the
determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination pursuant to § 15.3 of
the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/15.3.
   (B)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to the Animal
Control Act by the Director may, within 14 days of receipt of notification of
the determination, request an administrative hearing to appeal the
determination pursuant to the Department of Agriculture’s rules applicable to
formal administrative proceedings (8 Ill. Admin. Code part 1, subparts A and
B).
   (C)   Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the appeal
process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
Administrator, the Court or the Director.
   (D)   At any time after a final order has been entered, the owner may
petition the Circuit Court to reverse the designation of dangerous dog.
(Prior Code, § 90-1-26) (Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
KEEPING OF CHICKENS
§ 90.50 PILOT PROGRAM FOR KEEPING OF CHICKENS APPROVED.
   A pilot program to allow the keeping of chickens in the village to review
the effects and issues of keeping chickens in the village is hereby approved.
During the period of the pilot program the village shall not enforce the
prohibition contained in §
90.03 of the Riverton Municipal Code against participants in the pilot program
who complete an application with the village and attest that they will comply
with the requirements in §
90.51 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 23-08, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 90.51 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, harbor, or keep chickens not
in compliance with the following regulations:
   (A)   Prior to the purchasing of chickens, a landowner may apply for a
chicken license to be issued by the Village of Riverton by including a fee of
$35. An annual renewal license shall be required each year thereafter to be
purchased before June 1 of the calendar year.
   (B)   A landowner must also apply for a building permit for all enclosures/
structures associated with the keeping of chickens. A building inspection/
approval pursuant to the Village Building Code is required prior to the
issuance of a chicken license.
   (C)   Chickens (members of the subspecies Gallus galls domesticus, a
domesticated fowl) shall be permitted on lots containing not less than 7,500
square feet.
   (D)   Roosters are prohibited.
   (E)   No other poultry, including but not limited to geese, ducks or turkeys
shall be kept on the property.
   (F)   A minimum of two and a maximum of four chickens shall be permitted.
   (G)   All chickens shall be kept within a covered enclosure/structure with
an attached covered/enclosed outdoor area to prevent chickens from being at
large on the owner's property or on neighboring properties.
   (H)   An outdoor area minimum of six square feet per chicken shall be
required and a maximum of 100 total square feet shall be permitted for both the
covered enclosure and outdoor area.
   (I)   All enclosures/structures shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from
all lot lines and existing structures.
   (J)   All chickens and enclosures shall be located in the rear yard and the
yard must be fenced.
   (K)   All areas where the chickens are kept shall be clean and well
maintained with little to no accumulation of waste and shall not produce or
cause odors that are detectable on adjacent properties.
   (L)   No slaughtering shall be allowed on the property.
   (M)   Three complaints will be grounds for revocation of a chicken license
with no refund of fees.
   (N)   In the event of revocation, the landowner must contact the Village of
Riverton within ten calendar days of the chickens being removed from the
property. There will be no refund of fees, and failure to remove chickens shall
be considered a violation of §
90.03.
   (O)   A maximum of ten residential zoning lots shall be licensed to have
chickens in the Village at one time.
(Ord. 23-08, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations in ordinance violation cases.
      (1)   For violations of this chapter other than violations relating to
dangerous, vicious and biting dogs and other animals, village police officers
are authorized to issue citations. Citations shall be issued on forms approved
by the Chief of Police and shall be served personally on the violator, left
with a responsible family member of at least 13 years of age at the home of the
violator or mailed to the residence of the violator.
      (2)   On receipt of any citation alleging violation of any section of
this chapter, the violator may pay one-half of the minimum fine provided in
this chapter at the Village Hall within ten working days of issuance of the
citation and, in such event, the village will not prosecute the ordinance
violation. After ten working days, but before filing of an action with the
Circuit Court of the county, an alleged violator may avoid prosecution under
this chapter by paying the full minimum fine applicable to the violation at the
Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 90-2-1)
   (B)   Prosecution of violations.
      (1)   The village may, by its Attorney, file a complaint and prosecute
any alleged violation of this chapter:
         (a)   Where a citation has been issued, after ten working days have
elapsed from the date of issuance of a citation; and/or
         (b)   Where no citation has been issued, at any time.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties set forth in this chapter, the village
may pursue any and all other remedies available under state law, including, but
not limited to, bringing actions to abate nuisances and seeking the destruction
of dangerous or vicious animals.
(Prior Code, § 90-2-2)
   (C)   Fines and penalties.
      (1)   Any person found to have violated this chapter shall, in addition
to boarding costs and impoundment fees required herein, be fined not less than
$250, or more than $750.
      (2)   Each day an offense continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 90-2-3)
(Ord. 2006-014, passed 7-10-2006)
CHAPTER 91: INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles on public property
   
91.03   Inoperable motor vehicles on private property
   
91.04   Abandoned, but not inoperable, motor vehicles on private property
   
91.05   Other remedies
   
91.06   Parking of vehicles with expired registration stickers
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As defined in § 1-101.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
ILCS 5/1-101.5, any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   As defined in § 11-40-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/
11-40-3, any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days, the
engine, wheels, tires or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
      (2)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations nor to any
motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, nor to any
operable historic vehicles over 25 years of age, nor to a motor vehicle on a
premises lawfully engaged in the wrecking and junking of motor vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in § 1-146 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, every
vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles moved solely by human
power and motorized wheelchairs.
   PERSON. Any human being, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, public or private, within the corporate limits
within the village that is not a street or highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 92.001) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 91.02 INOPERABLE OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Inoperable motor vehicles which are on public property, a street or a
highway, are hereby declared a nuisance.
   (B)   They shall be towed or otherwise dealt with by the Police Department
in accordance with procedures set forth in Ch. 4, Art. II of Illinois Motor
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by
reference, together with all future amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 92.002) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 91.03 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Inoperable motor vehicles on private property are hereby declared a
nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a police officer discovers an inoperable motor vehicle
on private property, the officer shall determine the owner of record of the
property, and if the vehicle has a license plate, the owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   The officer shall attempt to determine the identity of persons
occupying the property if different from the owner of record.
      (3)   The officer shall cause a notice in substantially the following
form to be mailed, by Certified U.S. Mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal delivery to the owner of record of the property, and to all persons
known to the officer, after reasonable investigation, to occupy such property,
and also to the owner of the motor vehicle, if the owner is known:
 
NOTICE TO REMOVE OR REPAIR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the Police Department of the Village of Riverton, Illinois, has determined that there exists an inoperable motor vehicle, generally described as follows and hereinafter referred to as “the vehicle”:
 
Make:                                                                                          
Model:                                                                                         
Model Year, if known:                                                                   
Color:                                                                                          
License No., if known:                                     State:                 
Other identifying characteristics:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
The vehicle is currently located on the following property:
Address:                                                                                        
 
The vehicle is in violation of Ch. 91 of the Village of Riverton, which prohibits inoperable motor vehicles on private property within the corporate limits of the village.
 
You are hereby ordered to remove or repair such inoperable vehicle within seven calendar days from the date of service of this notice, if it has been hand-delivered, or within 11 calendar days from the date of mailing of this notice, if it was mailed by certified mail.
 
Section 91.99 of the Riverton Code of Ordinances provides that any person violating its provisions is subject to a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $750, for each day a violation is allowed to continue. If the village must prosecute you for having an inoperable motor vehicle, it may seek fines beginning from the date of this notice.
 
If you fail to remove or repair the inoperable motor vehicle by the date set forth in this notice, the village may remove the inoperable vehicle, or may hire someone to do so. Any person ordered to repair or remove an inoperable vehicle may have a hearing with the Public Health and Safety Committee of the Village Board. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Municipal Clerk no later than seven days after the date of service of this notice, if served personally; or 11 days after the date of mailing
of this notice, if it was mailed. If no hearing is requested, or if the Committee determines after the hearing that the vehicle is indeed inoperable, the vehicle may be towed without further notice.
 
Definitions:
As used in this notice, “inoperable motor vehicle” means any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days, the engine, wheels, tires or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. “Inoperable motor vehicle” shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary
service or repair operations nor to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, nor to any operable historic vehicles over 25 years of age, nor to a motor vehicle on the premises lawfully engaged in the wrecking and junking of motor vehicles.
 
“Repair” means to take such action as is required to make an inoperable motor vehicle capable of being driven under its own power.
 
This notice is dated this                       day of                              , 20           .
                                                                                                
Signature
 
 
   (C)   Notice by certified mail pursuant to this section shall be
accomplished if the village receives a return receipt from the addressee or if
the certified or regular mailing is returned “unclaimed” or “refused”.
   (D)   In the event that a violation of §§
91.02 and
91.03 of this chapter is not corrected within the time specified in the notice,
or if there is a hearing, within five days after the hearing, the Police
Department may proceed to tow and dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Ch. 4, Art. II of Illinois Motor
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 92.003) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 91.04 ABANDONED, BUT NOT INOPERABLE, MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Vehicles which are not inoperable, but which are abandoned in the sense of
not having been moved for seven consecutive days or more and being apparently
deserted, may be removed by the Police Department and otherwise dealt with in
accordance with Art. II of § 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, but only if:
   (A)   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned is
different from the owner of the vehicle;
   (B)   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned requests
the Police Department to take action; and
   (C)   If approved by the Chief of Police, in his or her sole discretion.
(Prior Code, § 92.004) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 91.05 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, the corporate authorities may, at
any time, instruct the Village Attorney to filing a lawsuit in the Circuit
Court of the county, seeking any or all remedies available in the Illinois
Municipal Code respecting abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   The corporate authorities may seek penalties in accordance with §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.005) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 91.06 PARKING OF VEHICLES WITH EXPIRED REGISTRATION STICKERS.
   No person may stop, park or leave standing upon a public street, highway or
roadway a vehicle upon which is displayed a state registration plate or plates
or registration sticker after the termination of the registration period for
which the registration plate or sticker was issued or after the expiration date
set by §§ 3-314 or 3-314.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 92.006) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of §§
91.02,
91.03 or
91.04 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $250, and no more than $750,
plus the cost to the village of its attorney’s fees and shall be required by
the court to make a disposition on the abandoned, unclaimed or inoperable
vehicle. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set forth in this chapter and in Illinois
Motor Vehicle Code, the village may bring a common law nuisance action against
a person who is responsible for a nuisance as defined in this chapter, and in
connection therewith, may seek all remedies available in law or equity in
connection with such an action, and shall be entitled as part of the action to
an award of its attorney’s fees and costs.
   (C)   A person who violates §
91.06 of this chapter shall be fined the sum of $50 for each violation. Each
day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.007) (Ord. 178, passed - -; Ord. 01-029, passed 12-12-2001;
Ord. 03-002, passed 1-6-2003)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations
   
92.001   Permit required
   
92.002   Surety bond; liability insurance; division of responsibility
   
92.003   Permit issuance; time and place
   
92.004   Supervision and inspection
   
92.005   Barricades and warning signs
   
92.006   Gas lines
   
92.007   Closing excavations
   
92.008   Failure to obtain permit
Construction of Utility Facilities in Public Rights-of-Way
   
92.025   Purpose and scope
   
92.026   Definitions
   
92.027   Annual registration required
   
92.028   Permit required; applications and fees
   
92.029   Action on permit applications
   
92.030   Effect of permit
   
92.031   Revised permit drawings
   
92.032   Insurance
   
92.033   Indemnification
   
92.034   Security
   
92.035   Permit suspension and revocation
   
92.036   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
92.037   General construction standards
   
92.038   Traffic control
   
92.039   Location of facilities
   
92.040   Construction methods and materials
   
92.041   Vegetation control
   
92.042   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
92.043   Cleanup and restoration
   
92.044   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
92.045   Variances
   
92.046   Enforcement
   
92.047   Severability
Sidewalk Installation
   
92.060   Grade
   
92.061   Specifications
   
92.062   Cost of sidewalks
   
92.063   Village sidewalk replacement cost sharing program
EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.001 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk or
alley, or any part thereof, dig any hole, ditch or drain, or dig or remove any
sod, stone, earth, sand or gravel from, dig, place or construct any tunnel or
drive or bore for any pipe, conduit, wire, main, shaft, watermain, sewer line,
gas or electrical line on village property without having first obtained
written permission from the village’s Superintendent of Public Works or his or
her designee.
(Prior Code, § 76.001) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.002 SURETY BOND; LIABILITY INSURANCE; DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   Before a permit shall be granted to any person to open any pavement, improve
roadway, sidewalk or crosswalk or alley, for any purpose, the person shall file
with the village a certificate of insurance for public liability which names
the village as an additional insured under said policy, and shall also execute
to the village a good and sufficient bond in the amount of $20,000, with
sureties to be approved by the village’s Superintendent of Public Works or his
or her designee, conditioned: to indemnify, save and keep harmless the village
from any and all loss, cost, damage, expense or liability of any kind
whatsoever which the village may suffer or which may be recovered against the
village from or on account of the issuance of the permit to excavate, and from
or on account of any act or thing done by the permittee or permitted by the
permittee during the excavation. In addition to the foregoing, the permittee
shall be required to execute an agreement to indemnify, save and keep harmless
the village from any and all loss, cost, damage, expense or liability of any
kind whatsoever that it may sustain as a result of any suit, actions, or claims
of any character brought on account of injury to or death of any person or
persons, including all persons performing any work under the permit which may
arise, in any way, in connection with the work to be performed under this
permit.
(Prior Code, § 76.002) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.003 PERMIT ISSUANCE; TIME AND PLACE.
   The village’s Superintendent of Public Works or his or her designee shall
not issue any permit for the opening of any street, sidewalk or alley by any
person until he or she shall have been fully advised of the time, place and
character of such opening and the purpose thereof. All applications for permits
under this section shall be accompanied by a plat or pencil tracing or sketch
showing the location, character and dimensions of the proposed opening for the
installation of new work or the location and character of the alterations
involving changes in the location of pipes, conduits, sewers, wires or
conductors.
(Prior Code, § 76.003) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.004 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION.
   All work done under the authority of a permit under this section shall be
supervised and inspected by the village’s Superintendent of Public Works or his
or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 76.004) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.005 BARRICADES AND WARNING SIGNS.
   The permittee shall place around the excavation any barricade, flashing
lights, lanterns, channelization devices and warning signs as specified by the
village’s Superintendent or Department head.
(Prior Code, § 76.005) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.006 GAS LINES.
   In the event that any gas lines are broken during excavation, or in the
event that any gas line is shut off during such excavation, the permittee will
be responsible to the village for relighting pilot lights or reimbursing the
village for its time expended in relighting the pilot lights.
(Prior Code, § 76.006) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.007 CLOSING EXCAVATIONS.
   When closing excavations, backfill specified by the village’s Superintendent
of Public Works or his or her designee hall be used and repairs to streets and
sidewalks and other facilities shall be completed to village specifications.
(Prior Code, § 76.007) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 92.008 FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In the event that any person opening any street, alley, sidewalk or
crosswalk fails to obtain a permit therefor, the village’s Superintendent of
Public Works or his or her designee shall properly restore said street, alley
or public way to a condition as good as its original one and shall charge to
and collect from said person the cost of any work so done by the village.
(Prior Code, § 76.008) (Ord. 84-007, passed 6-5-1984)
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 92.025 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Facilities subject to this subchapter. This subchapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this subchapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   (C)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this subchapter.
   (D)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (E)   Conflicts with other chapters. This subchapter supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   (G)   Sound engineering judgement. The village shall use sound engineering
judgement when administering this subchapter and may vary the standards,
conditions and requirements expressed in this subchapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 78.001) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Admin. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this subchapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The code of ordinances of the village.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes
a material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the
soil; and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner
that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-
of-way under this subchapter, except those owned by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Superintendent of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
92.028 and
92.029 of this chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the
village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not
include any real or personal village property that is not specifically
described in the previous two sentences and shall not include village
buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
92.034 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGEMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices and experience.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Superintendent of Public Works
or his or her designee.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as defined in
the Illinois Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, 35 ILCS
635/1 et seq. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in
which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system, as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this subchapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 78.002) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.027 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Village Clerk, providing the utility’s name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as
required in §
92.032 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 78.003) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.028 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this subchapter) any
facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any village
right-of-way which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this subchapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Superintendent of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
subchapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed
in such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant
may designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, email address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic-control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
92.032 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
92.034 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
subchapter (see §
92.045 of this chapter); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items as applicable to the specific utility that is
the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” has been issued by the ICC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount to be determined by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 78.004) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.029 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Superintendent
of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules and regulations, the Superintendent of Public Works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Superintendent of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this subchapter and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, the Superintendent of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor
as soon as practicable. The Superintendent of Public Works may consult with the
Village Engineer with respect to any application for a permit.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this subchapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Superintendent of Public Works shall specify the
portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and
constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Superintendent of Public Works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either of the following, the telecommunications retailer may commence
work without obtaining a permit under this subchapter:
         (a)   Ten days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or
         (b)   Twenty-five days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
92.028 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 78.005) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.030 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter on village rights-of-way, and
does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge
upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 78.006) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.031 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
92.045 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Prior Code, § 78.007) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.032 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions
(A)(1) and (A)(2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X”, “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above of the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the Workers
Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 78.008) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.033 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgements,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this subchapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that, the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall
not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgements, damages, losses or
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach
of this subchapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents
or representatives.
(Prior Code, § 78.009) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.034 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this subchapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
subchapter; and
      (3)   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by the permittee in violation of this subchapter including,
without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the
permittee is required by this subchapter to perform that the village must
perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s
failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due the village from the
permittee pursuant to this subchapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Superintendent of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Superintendent
of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) or any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14-days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund; provided
that, the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the
14-day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided that, any
such withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance
required in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
subchapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the
permit, the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any
reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said
revocation; provided that, any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage
shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this subchapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 78.010) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.035 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this subchapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
and/or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and
the alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and restore the
rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of
such removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Prior Code, § 78.011) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.036 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this subchapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 78.012) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.037 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic-control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgement and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic-Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (92 Ill. Admin.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
subchapter, the Superintendent of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise
of sound engineering judgement, which principles apply and such decision shall
be final. If requested, the Superintendent of Public Works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation
of a facility in the future.
(Prior Code, § 78.013) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.038 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that, in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
92.044 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any in
traffic protection requirements that are brought to the utility’s attention by
the village.
(Prior Code, § 78.014) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.039 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgement (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (B)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Admin. Code § 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
         (c)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker
at each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (C)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (D)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (E)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   (F)   Above ground installation. Above ground facilities may be installed
only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
(Prior Code, § 78.015) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.040 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
Superintendent of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring
or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Ch. 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Illinois Traffic-Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Preservation. The utility shall not trench within the drip line
of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Superintendent of Public Works, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Superintendent of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
92.045 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Communication line installed by the plowed   24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                    30 inches (0.8 m)
Power or communication line (in general)     30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Admin. Code § 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided that,
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip augers
or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of moles, whip augers or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192,
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines; storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. With the
approval of the Superintendent of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Superintendent of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are from sunrise to sunset.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 78.016) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.041 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
subchapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (B)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (C)   Chemical use. Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Works that such spraying is the
only practicable method of vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 78.017) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.042 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way
whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction,
repair, maintenance or installation of any village improvement in or upon, or
the operations of the village in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized notice from the village, facility or related appurtenances within
the public rights-of-way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of
such facilities or appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is
unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this subchapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within 90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Superintendent of
Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person.
(Prior Code, § 78.018) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.043 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the
utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a
timely manner and to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Superintendent of Public Works.
Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project.
(Prior Code, § 78.019) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.044 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Superintendent of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the Village
of Riverton a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within
48 hours after an emergency repair.
(Prior Code, § 78.020) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.045 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this subchapter must do so in writing to the
Superintendent of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request
shall identify each provision of this subchapter from which a variance is
requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Superintendent of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this subchapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Superintendent of Public
Works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Superintendent of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this subchapter, but which
carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 78.021) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.046 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 78.023) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 92.047 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
subchapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 78.024) (Ord. 98-060, passed 11-16-1998)
SIDEWALK INSTALLATION
§ 92.060 GRADE.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall approve the grades for all
sidewalks, and the same shall conform, as nearly as possible, to the grades of
the respective street. No person may construct or lay or cause to be
constructed or laid any sidewalk where no grade has been approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works, or contrary to any grade approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 95-022, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 92.061 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with specifications as
established by the Superintendent of Public Works. No sidewalk shall be
constructed to less than four feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 54.002) (Ord. 95-022, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 92.062 COST OF SIDEWALKS.
   The cost of any new sidewalk shall be borne by the property owner. In any
new residential subdivision, the cost of constructing sidewalks shall be borne
by the developer as established in the village’s subdivision ordinance. Repair
and maintenance of existing sidewalks shall be at the cost of the village and
shall be performed solely at the discretion of the village.
(Prior Code, § 54.003) (Ord. 95-022, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 92.063 VILLAGE SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT COST SHARING PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a village sidewalk replacement cost
sharing program. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to replace a sidewalk
may apply for participation in the program, during an application period to be
established yearly by the Village Board. Applications shall be considered in
the order of their receipt, and may be approved or denied by the Superintendent
of Public Works after consultation with the Village Board on the basis of the
Superintendent’s perceived need for replacement of the sidewalk in view of
available funds left in the year’s sidewalk appropriation.
   (B)   Applications for participation in the sidewalk program shall be on a
form prescribed by the Superintendent of Public Works. Each application shall
be accompanied by a sketch map and, if the landowner has solicited a contractor
for the work, with a copy of the contractor’s bid, quote or contract. If the
property owner has not selected a contractor and is doing his, her or its own
labor, then the owner shall submit a statement of materials including costs to
the village. The Superintendent of Public Works shall review the application
for completeness and shall consider whether the prices in the bid or statement
of materials are in accordance with generally prevailing costs within the
village. The owner shall be notified within ten business days of closing of the
filing period whether the application is approved.
   (C)   (1)   After the sidewalk is constructed and inspected to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Works, the applicant shall, within
90 days of the applications approval date, present to the Superintendent of
Public Works evidence of payment for the materials or payments to the
contractor. The village shall reimburse the applicant the lesser of:
         (a)   One-half the bid price or cost of materials price as set forth
in the application; or
         (b)   One-half the actual payments for the work or the materials, if
different from division (C)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   Reimbursements shall be processed by the village within 30 days of
receipt of evidence of payment.
   (D)   (1)   The village may in its discretion pool any or all of the
approved sidewalk projects for a single bid by a single contractor. In such
event, the pooled bid price shall be allocated among the applicants who wish to
participate in the pooled bid pro rata in proportion to the linear feet of
sidewalk to be replaced.
      (2)   Each owner shall pay the village one-half of the allocated pool bid
price in advance of the contractor performing the work; in which case the
reimbursement provisions set forth in division (C) above shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 54.004) (Ord. 95-022, passed 10-2-1995)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Street tree species to be planted
   
93.03   Spacing
   
93.04   Distance from curb and sidewalks
   
93.05   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
93.06   Utilities
   
93.07   Public tree care
   
93.08   Tree topping
   
93.09   Pruning, corner clearance
   
93.10   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
93.11   Removal of stumps
   
93.12   Arborists, license and bond
   
93.13   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.001) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 93.02 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the village.
   (B)   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the Village Tree Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees          Medium Trees                  Large Trees
Apricot              Ash, Green or White           Coffeetree
Crabapple            Hackberry                     Kentucky
Flowering (SP)       Honeylocust                   Maple, Red
Golden Rain Tree                                   Maple, Silver
Hawthorne (SP)       Linden or Basswood            Maple, Sugar
Pear, Bradford       (SP)                          Oak, Bur
Redbud               Mulberry, Red                 Sycamore
Soapberry            (fruitless, male)             Sycamore, London planetree
Lilac, Japanese Tree Oak, English                  Oak, White
Peach, Flowering     Oak, Red                      Walnut, Black
Plum, Purpleleaf     Pagodatree, Japanese
Serviceberry         Pecan
Dogwood              Birch
                     Osageorange (thornless, male)
                     Persimmon
                     Poplar, White
                     Sassafrass
                     Oak, Pin
                     Tulip
 
(Prior Code, § 95.006) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
93.02 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following:
   (A)   Small trees: 25 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 35 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 40 feet, except in special plantings, which shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.007) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALKS.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
93.02 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following:
   (A)   Small trees: two feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: three feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: four feet.
(Prior Code, § 95.008) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 95.009) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
93.03 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire pole or over or within five lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. No
street tree may be planted within ten lateral feet of any utility pole.
(Prior Code, § 95.010) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety, or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 95.110) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 93.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or village
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the Tree
Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.120) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the
street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control
device or sign.
(Prior Code, § 95.130) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the village, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.140) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 93.11 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be cut to at least six inches
below the surface of the ground. The soil cavity shall be filled with soil and
the area leveled.
(Prior Code, § 95.150) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.12 ARBORISTS, LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
village, without first applying for and procuring a license.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 annually in advance; provided, however,
that, no license shall be required of any public service company or village
employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of
possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily
injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the village or any person
injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors, as herein
described.
(Prior Code, § 95.170) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or persons ultimately determined to be responsible for the
violation of this chapter shall be liable for the expense and costs incurred by
the village in abating the violation.
(Prior Code, § 95.190) (Ord. 94-029, passed 10-17-1994)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADULT USES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
112.   TRAILER COACH PARKS
      
113.   SOLID WASTE HAULERS
      
114.   JUNKYARDS
      
115.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
116.   TOBACCO
      
117.   FAIR HOUSING
      
118.   AMUSEMENTS
      
119.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
120.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: ADULT USES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Liquor sale and consumption prohibited
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Criminal background requirement
   
110.05   Permit review
   
110.06   Action by Chief of Police
   
110.07   Action by corporate authorities
   
110.08   Exterior display
   
110.09   Existing adult uses
   
110.10   Permit renewal
   
110.11   Offenses
   
110.12   Enlargement or change in nature of use
   
110.13   Guide to interpretation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin-operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of the materials; or an establishment that holds
itself out to the public as a purveyor of the materials based upon its signage,
advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin-operated
booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any other
factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey the material.
   ADULT CLUB. A public or private establishment, a primary purpose of which is
to provide members or guests with a venue to perform specified sexual
activities with other members or guests.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
      (1)   Features topless dancers, strippers, go-go dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
      (2)   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; and/or
      (3)   Features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or
conduct, perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the
prurient interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are
engaged in explicit simulation of, specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. As defined by § 11-5-1.5 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, “a striptease club or a pornographic movie theatre whose
business is the commercial sale, dissemination or distribution of sexually
explicit material, shows or other exhibitions or an adult book store or adult
video store whose primary business is the commercial sale, dissemination or
distribution of sexually explicit material, shows or other exhibitions”.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
novelties, lotion and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
the materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any other factors
showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey the material.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult entertainment facilities, adult novelty stores,
adult clubs and other similar uses of property within the village.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals;
         (b)   Pubic region;
         (c)   Buttock; and/or
         (d)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts; and excretory functions as part of or in connection
with any of the foregoing activities.
(Prior Code, § 153.001) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.02 LIQUOR SALE AND CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold or consumed on
the premises of any adult use.
(Prior Code, § 153.002) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LOCATION.
   Adult uses are permitted only in areas zoned I-1, I-2 or AG under Ch. 157 of
this code of ordinances; provided:
   (A)   No structure containing an adult use, and no sign advertising its
location or existence, shall be located within 300 feet of the property line of
any property which is zoned residential or used for residences, churches,
schools, parks or another adult use;
   (B)   In accordance with § 11-5-1.5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, no adult
entertainment facility shall be located within 1,000 feet of the property
boundaries of any school, day care center, cemetery, public park, forest
preserve, public housing and place of religious worship; and/or
   (C)   No adult use shall be located in a building in which there is an
establishment selling alcoholic liquors.
(Prior Code, § 153.003) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 CRIMINAL BACKGROUND REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued to a person who has been convicted of any felony
or misdemeanor involving prostitution, obscenity or other offense of a sexual
nature or to a business entity, any manager or owner of 5% or more of the
interest of which has been convicted of such a crime.
(Prior Code, § 153.004) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.05 PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   Permits for constructing or occupying an adult use shall be issued
only after the following review process. The applicant shall apply to the
Zoning Administrator for the permit; the application shall be accompanied by a
$500 application fee. The application shall be on a form designated by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide a copy of the application to
the Chief of Police, and shall process the portion of the application marked
“for Zoning Administrator’s review” and shall forward the application to the
Plan Commission for review. Within 60 days of filing, the Plan Commission shall
conduct a review of the application for conformance with the zoning subdivision
and this chapter. The Plan Commission shall render a recommendation to the
Village Board as to whether the proposed adult use conforms with all village
ordinances and may recommend conditions on the development and operation of the
adult use related to site plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting,
parking and circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and
signage in order to assure that the design and operation of the adult use is in
conformance with all village ordinances and is compatible with surrounding
uses.
(Prior Code, § 153.005) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.06 ACTION BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall run a criminal background check on all persons
disclosed by the application to have a 5% or greater ownership interest in the
permit application, in order to verify that no persons have been convicted of
the crimes of prostitution, obscenity or other crimes of a sexual nature. The
Chief of Police shall report his or her findings to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.006) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.07 ACTION BY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.
   Within 30 days of receipt of the Plan Commission’s recommendation, the
Village Board shall, by resolution duly made, seconded, passed and signed by
the Village President, grant or deny the permit. The Village Board’s action
shall specify the location, by legal description and common address, of the
adult use and shall specify the nature of the adult use permitted. The Village
Board may place conditions on the adult use. The Village Board’s determination
is a final agency action subject to administrative review.
(Prior Code, § 153.007) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.08 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation
of any material depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas from any public way or from any
property not registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
(Prior Code, § 153.008) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.09 EXISTING ADULT USES.
   Any adult use which existed lawfully, but which became non-conforming upon
the adoption of this chapter, may be continued as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Upon written notice from the village to the owners or interests
therein that any building, structure, lot or regulated use is non-conforming
under the provisions of
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, as amended, the owners or interests therein
shall, within two months from the date of the notice, apply to the Village
Clerk for a certificate of non-conformance;
   (B)   Failure to apply for a certificate of non-conformance within two
months of the notice provided in division (A) above will require the
amortization of the non-conformance within six months of the notice provided
for in division (A) above; and
   (C)   Non-conformances that have applied for certificate of non-conformance
from the Village Clerk shall be discontinued within one year of the notice
provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 153.009) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.10 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (B) below, a permit granted pursuant
to this chapter is valid until December 31 of the year in which it is granted.
During the month of December of each year, each licensee shall apply for a
permit renewal, using the permit renewal application as designated by the
Zoning Administrator. A renewal permit, when granted, shall be valid until
December 31 of the following year. The annual permit renewal fee shall be $75.
   (B)   Upon any change in ownership of greater than 5% of a corporate or LLC
licensee, the licensee shall apply for a permit renewal, using an application
designated by the Zoning Administrator. The renewal permit shall be valid until
December 31 of the year in which it was issued.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall run a criminal background check on all
persons disclosed by a renewal application under either divisions (A) or (B)
above to have a 5% or greater ownership interest in the applicant, in order to
verify that no such persons have been convicted of the crimes of prostitution,
obscenity or other crimes of a sexual nature. The Chief of Police shall report
his or her findings to the Village President. Renewal permits shall be granted
by the Village President unless the Village President finds that the applicant
is in violation of this chapter or any other provision of the village’s code of
ordinances, or of the conditions of the original permit. Any denial of a
renewal permit application is subject to administrative review.
(Prior Code, § 153.010) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.11 OFFENSES.
   (A)   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company or other business entity shall own, manage or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village without a permit from the
village obtained in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   No natural person and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company or other business entity shall provide false information on
an application for an adult use permit.
   (C)   No natural person and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company or other business entity shall own, manage or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village, except in conformance
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.011) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 ENLARGEMENT OR CHANGE IN NATURE OF USE.
   An adult use permit is specific to a location and to a use. No adult use may
be enlarged, nor the nature of the adult use changed, without the owner and
manager thereof securing a new permit.
(Prior Code, § 153.013) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.13 GUIDE TO INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as permitting or endorsing any
activity or use which violates state or federal law, including, but not limited
to, laws pertaining to obscenity, prostitution and solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 153.014) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Natural and legal persons found guilty of violating this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $250, or more than
$750. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. Where a
corporation, limited liability company or other legal person owns or operates
an adult use, all officers, directors, managers and employees who knowingly
participated in management decisions shall be liable to the same extent as the
legal person.
(Prior Code, § 153.012) (Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Liquor Commissioner
Licenses
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application for license
   
111.17   Disposition of license application
   
111.18   Restriction on licensees
   
111.19   Record of licenses
   
111.20   Insurance requirements
   
111.21   Term of license; renewals
   
111.22   Transfer of license
   
111.23   Banquet hall licenses
   
111.24   Permanent outdoor tavern area permit
   
111.25   Outdoor sales and consumption prohibited
   
111.26   Classification and fees
   
111.27   Temporary permit for outside sales
   
111.28   License applications and terminations; fees
   
111.29   Incomplete applications
   
111.30   Disposition of fees
Conditions and Regulations
   
111.45   Conditions of license
   
111.46   Location restrictions
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   View from street
   
111.49   Premises restrictions
   
111.50   Personnel restrictions
   
111.51   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
111.52   Sales to minors, drunkards and the like
   
111.53   Purchase or acceptance of gift by minors; identification cards
   
111.54   Violation of Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act; citizen complaints
   
111.55   Revocation or suspension of local license; fines; notice; hearing;
appeal
   
111.56   Forfeiture of fees
   
111.57   Use of premises after revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. This chapter shall not apply
to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance
with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid
or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided that, such CLUB files with the Liquor Commissioner
at the time of its application for a license under this chapter two copies of a
list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten
days of the election of any additional member his or her name and address; and,
provided further that, its affairs and management are conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their
annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the CLUB
is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or other
compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests introduced by members beyond
the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by
the members or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the
general revenue of the CLUB.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered to adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures, being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   LIQUOR COMMISSIONER. The President of the village.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1,
as now or hereafter amended.
   PERSON. Any natural person or any corporation or partnership or
unincorporated association.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. An applicant for a
RESTAURANT license must be able to demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction
of the Liquor Commissioner that at least 50% of the gross revenue of the
establishment will derive from sale of food. The holder of a RESTAURANT license
must be able to demonstrate, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Liquor
Commissioner, at any time upon demand of the Liquor Commissioner and upon
renewal of a license, at least 50% of the gross revenue of the establishment
has regularly derived from sale of food.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or other non-profit organizations.
   SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, civic, religious or non-
profit organization which sells or offers for sale, beer or wine or both, only
for consumption at the location and on the dates designated by a special event
license.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE COMMISSION. The Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   TO SELL. To keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Prior Code, § 110.001) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2005-026, passed
10-17-2005)
§ 111.02 LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   General. The Village President is hereby designated as the Liquor
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Liquor Control
Act and of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may
be enacted. The President may appoint a person or persons to assist in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Powers, duties and functions. The Liquor Commissioner shall have all
the powers, functions and duties with respect to local liquor licenses granted
by the Liquor Control Act, including:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
village and to impose fines as set forth herein;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the Liquor Commissioner or by the State Commission, have
been or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen with the village that any of
the provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter have been or are being
violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner provided by the Liquor
Control Act or this chapter;
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, of any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the State Commission; to examine, or
cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee
or respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for information in the
performance of the Liquor Commissioner’s duties; and for such purposes, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Liquor Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize an agent to act on his or
her behalf;
      (6)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act or a foreign corporation functioning
as a club in the state under a certificate of authority issued under that Act
has violated the Liquor Control Act by selling or offering for sale at retail
alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license; and
      (7)   To revoke and suspend licenses, and levy fines, in accordance with
§
111.55 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.002) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
LICENSES
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Prior Code, § 110.003) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a license shall submit to the Liquor Commissioner or to the
Village Clerk (who shall transmit the application to the Liquor Commissioner)
an application in writing under oath stating:
   (A)   The applicant’s name and mailing address;
   (B)   The name and address of the applicant’s business;
   (C)   If applicable, the date of the filing of the assumed name of the
business with the County Clerk;
   (D)   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of a state corporation, the date of its incorporation;
or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was incorporated
and the date of its becoming qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983 to transact business in the state;
   (E)   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant’s current state and local retail liquor licenses;
   (F)   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased, with
a copy of the lease;
   (G)   Whether the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, any officer,
director, manager or owner of 5% or more of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant’s business, has made an application for a
liquor license which has been denied and, if so, the reasons therefor;
   (H)   Whether the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, any officer,
director, manager or owner of 5% or more of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant’s business, has ever had any previous
liquor license suspended or revoked and, if so, the specific reasons thereof;
   (I)   Whether the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, any officer,
director, manager or owner of 5% or more of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant’s business, has ever been convicted of any
criminal misdemeanor or felony and, if so, the particulars thereof;
   (J)   Whether the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, any officer,
director, manager or owner of 5% or more of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant’s business, possesses a current federal
wagering stamp and, if so, the reasons therefor;
   (K)   Whether the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, any officer,
director, manager or owner of 5% or more of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant’s business, or any other person with an
interest in the applicant’s place of business is a public official and, if so,
the particulars thereof;
   (L)   The applicant’s name, sex, date of birth, Social Security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, Social Security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager and any
person who owns 5% or more of the shares of the applicant’s business entity or
parent corporations of the applicant business entity;
   (M)   In addition to any other requirement of this section, an applicant for
a special event retailer’s license shall also submit proof of adequate dram
shop insurance for the special event prior to being issued a license;
   (N)   If the application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed by at least two
members of such partnership or the president and secretary of such corporation
or two authorized agents of said partnership or corporation; and
   (O)   The transaction control number (TCN), issued by an approved LIVESCAN
vendor documenting that digital fingerprints have been submitted to appropriate
state and federal agencies, when background check is required by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 110.004) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 15-020, passed 7-
20-2015)
§ 111.17 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Liquor Commissioner shall require a background check on any new
applicant for a Class C or F liquor license. When the applicant is a
partnership, the background check shall include all partners thereof. When the
applicant is a corporation, the background check shall include the officers,
manager or director of the corporation and any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the capital stock of the corporation.
When the applicant is a limited liability company, the background check shall
include the managers, officers and members owning in the aggregate more than 5%
of the membership interest of the limited liability company.
   (B)   The Liquor Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, require a
background check on any new applicant for a liquor license other than Class C
or F. When the applicant is a partnership, the background check may include all
partners thereof. When the applicant is a corporation or limited liability
company, the background check may include the officers, manager or director of
the corporation and any stockholders or members owning in the aggregate more
than 5% of the capital stock of the corporation. When the applicant is a
limited liability company, the background check may include the managers,
officers and members owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the membership
interest of the limited liability company.
   (C)   The background check shall include digital fingerprinting and picture
completed by an approved LIVESCAN vendor, as listed on Illinois State Police
website. The Police Chief will give individuals requiring a background check
the ORI code for the Village Liquor Commission. Each individual shall be
responsible for scheduling and completing his or her digital fingerprint
submission and obtaining the transaction control number (TCN) issued by the
approved vendor documenting the submission to state and federal agencies, and
shall include the TCN on the liquor license application. Each individual shall
be responsible for any charges incurred with respect to the LIVESCAN
procedures, and shall pay the approved LIVESCAN vendor directly; in no event
shall the village be responsible for LIVESCAN vendor charges. The digital
fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and federal agencies
for processing as available.
   (D)   The Liquor Commissioner may, after examination of the application,
require the submission of further information needed for a determination under
§
111.18 of this chapter or conduct further investigations, as set forth in §
111.02(B)(5) of this chapter.
   (E)   The Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection of an
applicant within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or Village Clerk;
or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for further time being necessary to
complete the investigation or processing.
(Prior Code, § 110.005) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2008-016, passed
5-19-2008; Ord. 15-020, passed 7-20-2015)
§ 111.18 RESTRICTION ON LICENSEES.
   No liquor licenses shall be issued to:
   (A)   A natural person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A natural person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which such person resides;
   (C)   A natural person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A natural person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is
keeping a house of ill fame;
   (E)   A natural person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A natural person whose license under this chapter or under the Liquor
Control Act has been revoked for cause;
   (G)   A natural person who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (H)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such copartnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, assistant manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than
5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence;
   (J)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act to
transact business in the state;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
shall have forfeited a bond to appear in Court to answer charges for any such
violation;
   (M)   A person who does not actually or beneficially own the premises for
which a license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which the license is to be issued;
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of the city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except that, the license may be granted to
such official in relation to premises which are not located within the
territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such
license is approved by the State Commission;
   (O)   Any person, firm or corporation not eligible for or who has failed to
obtain a state retail liquor dealer’s license;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(10), or as proscribed by a statute replacing
any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (R)   A natural person to whom a federal gaming device or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   (S)   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   (T)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, of any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp for the current tax period; and/or
   (U)   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period.
(Prior Code, § 110.006) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.19 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete record of all such licenses
issued and shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof.
   (B)   Upon revocation or suspension of any license, the Village Clerk shall
immediately give written notice thereof to the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 110.007) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.20 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to an applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Liquor Commissioner that such applicant is
covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring such
applicant against liability which such applicant may incur under the Liquor
Control Act.
   (B)   The evidence of the insurance policy shall indicate that the term of
the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass the period of the license
sought.
(Prior Code, § 110.008) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.21 TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 following
the issuance thereof, except Class A and B licenses, which shall be for limited
periods as prescribed in §
111.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   At the expiration of each license period, the licensee shall submit a
new application for each renewal period, which shall be processed in the same
manner as an application for a new license, except that any background check
will be discretionary with the Liquor Commissioner, and not required. If the
application meets the standards of this chapter, the licensee shall be entitled
to renewal of the license. The renewal privilege shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall prevent the corporate authorities of the village from
decreasing or limiting the number of classes of licenses to be issued pursuant
to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.009) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2008-016, passed
5-19-2008)
§ 111.22 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as provided herein,
and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable for transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee, and shall not descend
by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate Court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   (B)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.010) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.23 BANQUET HALL LICENSES.
   A Class BA “banquet hall” license shall authorize the service or sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail, to be sold and served by the drink or pitcher only,
although beer may be sold by the keg, and wine may be sold by the bottle, so
long as beer and wine are served by the drink or by the pitcher, for
consumption on the premises only, in the course of banquet hall business. In
the course of this business, the licensee is responsible for control of patrons
in the business premises, and at no time may patrons be allowed to act as
bartenders or otherwise dispense liquor. At all times that the premises are
used for the sale of alcoholic liquor, the licensee or a manager acting for the
licensee must be on the premises. Alcoholic liquor may be sold and served only
during such times and in such areas within the facility as are evidenced by a
written rental agreement, which agreement shall be available for inspection by
the Liquor Commissioner or his or her agents during each event and for six
months thereafter. The annual fee for the license shall be $250 payable in two
installments, $125 on April 30 of each year and $125 on October 30 of each
year. The number of banquet hall licenses shall be two.
(Prior Code, § 110.010A) (Ord. 2009-016, passed 6-1-2009; Ord. 13-017, passed
8-19-2013)
§ 111.24 PERMANENT OUTDOOR TAVERN AREA PERMIT.
   (A)   On application and payment of an investigation and processing fee of
$100 in addition to the license fees set forth herein, the holder of a Class B,
C, E, EE and F license may be issued a permanent outdoor tavern area permit.
   (B)   A permanent outdoor tavern area permit shall, upon issuance, entitle
the licensee to allow outside alcoholic liquor consumption as authorized by his
or her primary classification, outside of the permanent structure of his or her
premises, under the following conditions.
      (1)   A permanent fence, not less than six feet in height, made of wood
or other similar material, shall be erected by the licensee. Design and
material must be approved by the Liquor Commissioner in accordance with
standards approved from time to time by the Village Board. The fence shall be
designed in such a manner so as to separate the licensee’s patrons from the
general public, and shall be positioned between the area in which alcoholic
liquor can be consumed outside and any adjoining residential or commercial
property. All applicable fence permits must be obtained and fees paid prior to
erecting the fence.
      (2)   (a)   Access into the outdoor tavern area shall be from the
permanent structure only and no access shall be permitted from the street,
sidewalk or adjoining property. Emergency exits as approved by the Liquor
Commissioner shall be provided.
         (b)   Access into the outdoor tavern area may also be granted through
the emergency exit, so long as the emergency exit is staffed at all times by an
employee of the licensee who is checking identification cards and ensuring that
no alcoholic beverages are brought into or taken out of the outdoor tavern
area.
      (3)   No music of any kind may be played or broadcast from the outdoor
tavern area or within the permanent structure which is of such a volume so as
to disturb the neighborhood in any manner. Music shall not be played or
broadcast after 10:00 p.m.
      (4)   No sales or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may be made from the
outside tavern area or permanent structure to any person upon adjoining
property, public street, sidewalk or alley, and no alcoholic liquor served in
an open container may be removed from the outdoor café or permanent structure.
      (5)   Proof of dram shop insurance coverage on the outdoor tavern area
must be submitted with the completed application.
      (6)   Adequate security must be provided by the licensee.
      (7)   Outside tavern area activities may only be conducted during normal
business hours of the establishment.
      (8)   There shall be no sales of alcoholic liquors within the permanent
outside tavern area. All sales shall occur within the licensed premises and
alcoholic liquor shall be carried by the customers to the outside tavern area.
      (9)   The permanent outside tavern area may include an outside smoking
shelter erected and maintained in accordance with the Smoke Free Illinois Act,
30 ILCS 805/8.31 et seq., and any regulations of the state promulgated in
accordance therewith, as presently in force or as hereinafter amended.
Compliance with such act and regulations is a condition of issuance and renewal
of the permit.
      (10)   The annual fee for an outdoor sales permit shall be $25, with a
$15 annual renewal/inspection fee.
      (11)   The licensee shall be subject to all other regulations governing
the class of license held by the licensee, including, but not limited to,
regulations governing hours and the sale of food, except as specifically
amended herein.
   (C)   The initial permanent outside tavern area permit shall expire upon the
expiration of the license that is current as of the date of issuance of the
initial permit. Thereafter, the permanent outside tavern area permit may be
renewed and shall expire annually along with the expiration and renewal of the
license. The annual fee for the permit shall be $100, to be paid by the
licensee along with the license fee.
   (D)   Each licensed premises shall be limited to one outdoor tavern area
permit for one outdoor tavern area.
(Prior Code, § 110.010B) (Ord. 2007-038, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 2008-016,
passed 5-19-2008; Ord. 2008-038, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 111.25 OUTDOOR SALES AND CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   Except pursuant to a temporary outdoor permit issued pursuant to §
111.23 of this chapter or a permanent outdoor permit issued pursuant to §
111.24 of this chapter, no Class C, E, EE and F licensee may sell or allow the
consumption of alcoholic liquor as authorized by the license classification,
outside of the permanent structure and on the property where the licensee’s
permanent structure is located.
(Prior Code, § 110.010C) (Ord. 2008-016, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 111.26 CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   There shall be the following numbers and classes of licenses with an annual
license fee as indicated.
   (A)   Class A licenses shall authorize the sale at retail, on the premises
specified and during the time specified therein (an "event"), of beer and wine
only by an exempt, charitable, not-for-profit club or association organized for
the benefit of the public only. The fees for such license shall be $10 per day.
Such club or association may subcontract the beer and wine sales for such an
event to a person, firm or corporation who or which holds a Class B, C, E, EE
or F license from the village, or an equivalent license issued by Sangamon
County or a municipality located within Sangamon County, and for purposes of
such event, the location restrictions for such licenses shall not apply. Such
subcontracting of the beer or wine sales operation shall, however, be subject
to the following conditions.
      (1)   The Class A licensee shall be listed as an additional insured on
the subcontracted licensee's dram shop insurance policy.
      (2)   If the event is held on village-owned property, the village shall
be named as an additional insured on the subcontracted licensee's dram shop
insurance policy.
      (3)   The Class A licensee must enter into an agreement with the
subcontracted licensee; providing that, the Class A licensee's share of the
proceeds of beer and wine sales at the event shall be 50% or more.
      (4)   If the subcontracted licensee is not a licensee of the village, the
Class A licensee shall submit, as part of its application for a Class A
license, a current copy of the subcontracted licensee's local liquor license
and the relevant section of the licensing authority's liquor ordinance showing
that the subcontracting licensee has a license equivalent to a Class B, C, E,
EE or F license from the village.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall authorize the sale at retail, on the premises
specified and during the time specified therein, of beer only to members only
of a private club or fraternal association that keeps up to date records of its
membership, which records are open to inspection by the officers of the
village, including duly appointed police officers. The fee for such license
shall be $50 semi-annually.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall authorize the sale on the premises specified of
alcoholic liquor either for consumption on the premises, or in the original
package for consumption off premises; no alcoholic liquor purchased in the
original package shall be opened and consumed on premises. The annual fee for
such license shall be $500. The annual fee shall be payable in two
installments, namely $250 on June 30 of each year and $250 on December 30 of
each year.
   (D)   Class D licenses shall authorize the sale on the premises specified of
alcoholic liquor in the original package only for consumption off the premises;
provided that, no such original package containing less than one-half pint
shall be permitted to be sold. The annual fee for such license shall be $400.
The annual fee shall be payable in two installments, namely, $200 on June 30 of
each year and $200 on December 30 of each year.
   (E)   Class E licenses shall authorize the licensee, which must be a club,
to sell at retail, alcoholic liquor only for consumption on the premises where
sold. The annual fee for such license shall be $250. The annual fee shall be
payable in two installments, namely, $125 on June 30 of each year and $125 on
December 30 of each year.
   (F)   Class EE licenses shall authorize the licensee, which must be a club,
to sell at retail, beer only for consumption on the premises where sold. The
annual fee for such license shall be $200. The annual fee shall be payable in
two installments, namely, $100 on June 30 of each year and $100 on December 30
of each year.
   (G)   Class F licenses shall authorize the sale for consumption on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor at restaurants. The annual fee for such
license shall be $500. The annual fee shall be payable in two installments,
namely, $250 on June 30 of each year and $250 on December 30 of each year.
   (H)   Class G licenses shall authorize the sale on the premises of either a
licensed truck stop establishment or a licensed large truck stop establishment
(as defined in §
118.45) of alcoholic liquor either for consumption on the premises, or in the
original package for consumption off premises; no alcoholic liquor purchased in
the original package shall be opened and consumed on premises. The annual fee
for such license shall be $500. The annual fee shall be payable in two
installments, namely $250 on June 30 of each year and $250 on December 30 of
each year.
   (I)   The number of licenses issued by the village shall be as follows:
      (1)   There may be one Class A license outstanding at any time;
      (2)   There may be no Class B licenses;
      (3)   There may be no Class BA licenses;
      (4)   There may be five Class C licenses;
      (5)   There may be one Class D license;
      (6)   There may be one Class E license;
      (7)   There may be no Class EE licenses;
      (8)   There may be no Class F licenses; and
      (9)   There may be one Class G license.
(Prior Code, § 110.011) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 94-020, passed 6-
14-1994; Ord. 94-028, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 96-004, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 97-
009, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 98-046, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 03-010, passed 5-5-
2003; Ord. 03-014, passed 6-2-2003; Ord. 2004-006, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 2005-
026, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 2009-016, passed 6-1-2009; Ord. 14-019, passed 9-
2-2014; Ord. 15-011, passed 4-6-2015; Ord. 16-006, passed 4-18-2016; Ord. 22-
008, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 22-17, passed 8-29-2022)
§ 111.27 TEMPORARY PERMIT FOR OUTSIDE SALES.
   On application and payment of the license fee as set forth herein, the
holder of a Class C, E, EE and F license may be issued a temporary permit to
sell alcoholic liquor as authorized by the license classification, outside of
the permanent structure and on the property where the licensee’s permanent
structure is located, under the following conditions.
   (A)   A temporary fence, not less than four feet in height, made of wood,
plastic snow fence or other similar material shall be erected. The fencing
shall be designed and positioned so as to separate the licensee’s patrons from
the general public.
   (B)   Access into the outside area shall be from the permanent structure
only and no access shall be permitted from the street, sidewalk or adjoining
property. Emergency exits as approved by the Village Building Inspector shall
be provided.
   (C)   No music of any kind may be played or broadcast from the outside area
or within the permanent structure which is of such a volume so as to disturb
the neighborhood in any manner. Music shall not be played or broadcast after
10:00 p.m.
   (D)   Outdoor portable sanitary facilities must be provided by the licensee
as required.
   (E)   No sales or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may be made from the
outside area or permanent structure to any person upon adjoining property,
public street, sidewalk or alley, and no alcoholic liquor served in an open
container may be removed from the outside area or permanent structure.
   (F)   Proof of dram shop insurance coverage on the outside area must be
submitted with the completed application.
   (G)   Adequate security must be provided by the licensee.
   (H)   Outside area activities may not begin prior to 10:00 a.m. and will
cease at the normal closing time for the licensee, or 12:00 midnight, whichever
is earlier.
   (I)   An outside sales permit may be issued for a maximum of two consecutive
days. Not more than two permits may be issued to a licensee during a calendar
year.
   (J)   The fee for a temporary outside sales permit shall be $50 for each day
for which the permit is to be used. Issuance of an outside sales permit to a
licensee shall be treated separately from the licensee’s primary license and
shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the Commissioner for just
cause.
   (K)   Within the permitted area, the licensee shall be subject to all other
regulations governing the class of license held by the licensee, including, but
not limited to, regulations governing the sale of food, except as specifically
amended herein.
(Prior Code, § 110.011A) (Ord. 2007-017, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2008-016,
passed 5-19-2008; Ord. 20-025, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 111.28 LICENSE APPLICATIONS AND TERMINATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses applied for between
May 1 and October 31 shall be in an amount equal to the annual fee described in
§
111.26 of this chapter, plus a non-refundable fee of $50 per person, not to
exceed $200 per applicant, to defray the costs of investigation of the
applicant pursuant to §
111.17 of this chapter, payable in one installment.
   (B)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses applied for between
November 1 and April 30 shall be in an amount equal to one-half the annual fee,
plus the non-refundable fee of $50 per person, not to exceed $200 per
applicant, to defray the costs of investigation of the applicant pursuant to §
111.17 of this chapter, payable in one installment.
(Prior Code, § 110.012) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2008-016, passed
5-19-2008)
§ 111.29 INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements of information required by §
111.16 of this chapter shall be rejected by the Liquor Commissioner. The
Commissioner shall issue a written rejection of such application setting forth
the deficiencies in the application within 60 days of its receipt by the Liquor
Commissioner or by the Village Clerk. Prior to such rejection, the applicant
may submit the additional information or statements required to complete such
application in accordance with §
111.16 of this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of such deficiencies, and
rejecting such applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant’s incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee prior to the issuance of such liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 110.013) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.30 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such fees shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time application
is made. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant, except for the non-refundable fee set forth in §
111.28 of this chapter. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited as set forth above and no portion thereof shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 110.014) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 111.45 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Closing hours.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a license, regardless of
classification, to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the
village on Monday through Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a license, regardless of
classification, to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the
village on Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, the holder of a Class
B, C, E, EE or F license may sell or offer for sale those classes of alcoholic
liquor permitted by their respective licenses, between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 3:00 a.m. on January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Suspension. Violation of this section, or any division thereof, shall
be deemed to threaten the welfare of the village and shall be cause for
immediate suspension of the licensee’s license. Such revocation and suspension
shall be in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (C)   Election days. Licensees may sell at retail any alcoholic liquor on
the day of any national, state, county or village election, including primary
elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the political area in
which such election is being held.
   (D)   Refilling original packages. No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks or other containers, containing alcoholic liquor,
unless in original packages, except vinous beverages and pitchers of beer as
permitted elsewhere herein.
   (E)   Quantity sales for on-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee, to sell, give away or permit to be sold, served or given away for
consumption on the licensed premises any distilled spirits except by the glass,
in individual servings not exceeding three fluid ounces.
   (F)   Displaying license. Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.015) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 94-037, passed 12-
19-1994; Ord. 95-011, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 2000-043, passed 11-20-2000; Ord.
2005-026, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 2007-036, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 2008-016,
passed 5-19-2008; Ord. 2008-038, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 20-025, passed 12-21-
2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval station; provided that, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or restaurants or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school, where such church
or school has been established within such 100 feet since the issuance of the
original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
education programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor, if any such sales
are limited to period when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age, or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
   (D)   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only when and upon the written permit to make such change shall
be issued by the local Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.016) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 94-021, passed 6-
20-1994) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with any and
all village and county ordinances regulating the condition of the premises used
for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 110.017) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.48 VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed (other than a restaurant, hotel or club) no screen,
blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such licensed premises, nor inside such premises, which
shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road or sidewalk at all times. No booth, screen, partition or other
obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or
about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a clear view of the
entire interior from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is
sold for consumption on the premises shall be continuously lighted during
business hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee, or be
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license shall
be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this section, the Liquor Commissioner shall have the right to
require the filing of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
(Prior Code, § 110.018) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49 PREMISES RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensed premises shall be operated or occupied in violation of any
building, fire, health or safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy or capacity
limitation established or adopted by the village, the state, the county or if
applicable, the fire protection district for the village.
(Prior Code, § 110.019) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.50 PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Change in personnel.
      (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than 5%, but less than 50%, of the stock,
membership or other ownership interest, and all changes of managers or
assistant managers of establishments licensed under this chapter shall be
reported in writing to the Liquor Commissioner within ten days of the change.
All such new personnel shall be subject to a background check as set forth in §
111.28 of this chapter and shall pay a non-refundable fee of $50 per person,
not to exceed $200 per applicant. All such changes in personnel shall be
subject to review by the Liquor Commissioner to determine whether the new
persons would be eligible to hold a liquor license.
      (2)   Any sale, transfer or assignment of more than 50% of the shares of
a corporation or membership of a limited liability company or the sale,
transfer or assignment of more than 50% of the interest in a partnership, shall
be reported in writing to the Liquor Commissioner and shall terminate the
license; however, the licensee may apply for a new license at the same
premises.
      (3)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, the license shall terminate.
      (4)   When a license has been issued to a corporation or limited
liability company, and a change takes place in officers, directors, managers,
members or shareholders of more than 5% of the stock or membership interest,
resulting in the holding of office or stock or membership interests by one who
is not eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
      (5)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
   (B)   Employees. No employee, agent or manager, while on duty within the
premises, shall use or consume any illegal drugs or alcoholic liquor, or be
under the influence of illegal drugs or alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Supervision. A license which operates with a manager or assistant
manager shall have on duty at all times such manager or assistant manager when
the license is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 110.020) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2008-016, passed
5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Solicitation. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager or other
person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ or permit the
engagement or employment of any persons, nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on the premises who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or non-alcoholic liquor or sexual favors or services for
herself, himself or any other person; nor shall any person, whether employer,
entertainer or otherwise, solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase
alcoholic or non-alcoholic liquor for herself, himself or any other person
therein. However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager,
waitress or waiter who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and
serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment
as such manager, waitress or waiter.
(Prior Code, § 110.021) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known to be a habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of 21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose
of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
read substantially as follows:
 
WARNING TO PERSONS
UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
 
You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the ordinances of the Village of
Riverton if you purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.
 
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of any license which authorizes
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises, other than a Class E, EE or
F licensee, to suffer or permit any person under the age of 18 to be or remain
on the licensed premises unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
any person of which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provision of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to draw,
pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises. It shall be unlawful
for any person under the age of 21 years to dispense, sell or deliver any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises; except that, persons under the age
of 21 years, but over the age of 18 years, may be employed as waiters and
waitresses in an establishment holding a Class F restaurant license, to deliver
to customers alcoholic liquor drawn, poured or mixed by another.
(Prior Code, § 110.022) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 2005-026, passed
10-17-2005; Ord. 2006-027, passed 12-18-2006; Ord. 2008-016, passed 5-19-2008)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT BY MINORS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase
or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If a licensee or such licensee’s agent or employee believes, has
reason to believe or should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
such licensee, agent or employee shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification (containing proof
of age) issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official
duties. A ticket issued to a driver is not sufficient identification for
purposes of this section. Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of
this division (A)(2) shall be competent evidence and may be considered in
prosecution, revocation or suspension for the violation of any section of this
chapter relating to revocation or suspension for the violation of any other
provision of this chapter.
      (3)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      (4)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
21 years is forbidden.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the possession
and dispensing, or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony.
(Prior Code, § 110.023) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 VIOLATION OF RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX ACT; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the
Liquor Commissioner, upon the complaint of the State Department of Revenue, may
refuse the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or suspend or revoke such
license, for any of the following violations of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax
Act, as amended:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all of or part of any tax or penalty finally
determined to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; and/or
      (6)   Willful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   (B)   Complaint of violation; hearing. Any five residents of the village
shall have the right to file a complaint with the Liquor Commissioner that a
licensee has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or the Liquor
Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint
shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Liquor Commissioner and shall
be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state
the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and
the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is
satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and that from
the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall
set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time
and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 110.024) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.55 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; FINES; NOTICE; HEARING;
APPEAL.
   (A)   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license if he or she
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
or of any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the Village Board or any
applicable rule or regulations established by the Liquor Commissioner or the
State Commission which is not inconsistent with law. In lieu of suspension or
revocation, the Liquor Commissioner may instead levy a fine on the licensee for
such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation;
each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Not more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from such fines
shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the village.
   (B)   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined, except after a public hearing by the Liquor
Commissioner with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be open
to the public and the Liquor Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing
and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor
Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he or
she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard
during that period; except that, if such licensee shall also be engaged in the
conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises, such order
shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses.
   (C)   The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such hearing, if
he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for
such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the
period of suspension or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee.
   (D)   The licensee, after the receipt of such order of suspension or
revocation, shall have the privilege within a period of 20 days after the
receipt of such order of suspension or revocation of appealing the order to the
State Commission for a decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the order of
the Liquor Commissioner. If the State Commission affirms the Liquor
Commissioner’s order to suspend or revoke the license at the first hearing, the
appellant shall cease to engage in the business for which the license was
issued, until the Liquor Commissioner’s order is terminated by its own
provisions or reversed upon rehearing or by the Courts.
(Prior Code, § 110.025) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.56 FORFEITURE OF FEES.
   Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture of all moneys that have been
paid for the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.026) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 111.57 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
to any person for a period of one year thereafter for the conduct of the
business of manufacturing, distributing or selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license, unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation is entered as to the licensee only.
(Prior Code, § 110.027) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993; Ord. 99-046, passed 10-
4-1999)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person other than a licensee violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250, nor more than
$750, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be fined by the
Liquor Commissioner in lieu of suspension or revocation. The fine shall not
exceed $1,000 for each such violation. Each day on which the violation occurs
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $10,000 in fines under
this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of the
licensee’s license.
   (C)   Proceeds of fines imposed by the Liquor Commissioner shall be paid
into the Village Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 110.028) (Ord. 93-014, passed 5-24-1993)
CHAPTER 112: TRAILER COACH PARKS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; plan; fee
   
112.03   Character of applicant
   
112.04   Supervision
   
112.05   Spaces
   
112.06   Water supply
   
112.07   Sanitary facilities; garbage; lights
   
112.08   Additional regulations
   
112.09   Unlawful uses
   
112.10   Utility service
   
112.11   Exceptions
   
112.12   Authorization
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-assembled, completely integrated structure
designed for permanent habitation, with a permanent chassis, and so constructed
as to permit its transport, on wheels temporarily or permanently attached to
its frame, and is a movable or portable unit that is: (1) eight body feet or
more in width; (2) 40 body feet or more in length; and (3) 320 or more square
feet, constructed to be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and
wheels) from the place of its construction to the location, or subsequent
locations, at which it is connected to utilities for year-round occupancy for
use as a permanent habitation, and designed and situated so as to permit its
occupancy as a dwelling place for one or more persons, and specifically
includes a MANUFACTURED HOME as defined in subdivision (53) of § 9-102 of the
Uniform Commercial Code. The term shall include units containing parts that may
be folded, collapsed, or telescoped when being towed and that may be expected
to provide additional cubic capacity, and that are designed to be joined into
one integral unit capable of being separated again into the components for
repeated towing. The term excludes campers, recreational vehicles, modular
homes and their support systems. The words MOBILE HOME and MANUFACTURED HOME
are synonymous for the purposes of this chapter.
   TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle or similar portable structure constructed so as
to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street and so as to permit
the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
   TRAILER PARK or MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which two or more
mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue, together with
any building structure or enclosure used as part of the equipment of such park.
(Prior Code, § 111.001) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; PLAN; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain or operate any trailer
park or mobile home park in the municipality without first having obtained a
license therefor. Application for such licenses shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall contain the name of the applicant, the location of the
proposed park and the number of mobile homes to be accommodated. Whenever the
number of such accommodations is increased, this shall be reported to the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Each such application shall be accompanied by a plat or sketch showing
the size and location of all buildings and structures.
   (C)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 111.002) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.03 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character,
nor to any corporation if any officer thereof is not a person of good
character.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to hire or keep as manager, superintendent, or
person in charge of a trailer park or mobile home any person who is not a
person of good character, or any person who has been convicted of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 111.003) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.04 SUPERVISION.
   Each trailer park or mobile home park, while operated, shall at all times
have a responsible attendant or caretaker be in charge of said park, who shall
be responsible, with the licensee, for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter relating to the conduct of such parks.
(Prior Code, § 111.004) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.05 SPACES.
   (A)   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than 1,000
square feet. No mobile home shall be parked closer than five feet to the side
lot lines of a trailer park or mobile home park, if the abutting property is
improved property, or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley, or
building. Each individual mobile home site shall abut or face a driveway or
clear unoccupied space of not less than 20 feet in width, which space shall
have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There shall be an open
space of at least ten feet between the sides of every mobile home and at least
five feet between the ends of every mobile home.
   (B)   Off street parking area. Every licensee of a manufactured home park
shall provide for an off-street parking area of 400 square feet. The parking
area must be paved or rocked with a minimum four inch base.
   (C)   Fire extinguisher. All manufactured housing units located in the
village shall be equipped with a fire extinguishing apparatus capable of
extinguishing all types of fires. Such extinguishers shall be of sufficient
size so that they will reasonably protect the manufactured housing units. All
fire extinguishers shall be approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designated
representative prior to installation.
(Prior Code, § 111.005) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.06 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes from the
municipal water supply system shall be supplied to meet the requirements of
such trailer park or mobile home park. Such water shall be obtained from
faucets only, conveniently located in such park. No common drinking cups shall
be permitted. A master water meter shall be installed in each such park, and
the licensee shall be responsible for maintaining compliance with all state
regulations relating to the water supply to the park.
(Prior Code, § 111.006) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.07 SANITARY FACILITIES; GARBAGE; LIGHTS.
   (A)   Each trailer park or mobile home park shall provide toilets, baths or
showers with separate accommodations for men and women.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee and person in charge of a mobile
home park, or his or her agent or caretaker, to provide for the collection and
removal of garbage or other waste material and to otherwise maintain the park
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   All mobile home parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at
all times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
(Prior Code, § 111.007) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.08 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   In compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of
the licensee and person in charge of a trailer park or mobile home park to
comply fully with the provisions of the Mobile Home Park Act, found in 210 ILCS
115/1 to 115/27, and all public health regulations relating to the operation of
a mobile home park, as well as the regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.008) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.09 UNLAWFUL USES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any trailer coach upon
any plot of ground in the municipality. No trailer coaches are permitted in a
trailer park or mobile home park. No village utilities may be extended to any
trailer coach in the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any manufactured home
in the village or in a mobile home park in the village, unless it is five years
old or newer at the time it is first established in the village and has been
approved by authorized village personnel.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other
transporting device from any mobile home or otherwise to affix said mobile home
permanently to the ground so as to prevent ready removal of such mobile home,
unless a permit to do so is obtained from the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 111.009) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.10 UTILITY SERVICE.
   Electric or gas utility service, or both, will not be provided to mobile
homes not in compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such utility service
will not be provided to existing trailer or mobile homes after the existing
occupant (whether a tenant or owner) moves from such mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 111.010) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to an existing trailer coach or mobile home
currently in place so long as it is used by the existing occupant and remains
in its current place, but shall apply to an existing trailer or mobile home
after the existing occupant (whether a tenant or owner) moves from such trailer
coach or mobile home or moves the trailer coach or mobile home to another
location.
(Prior Code, § 111.011) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.12 AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority of § 18 of the Mobile Home
Park Act, and §§ 11-5-8 and 11-13-1 (effective 7-1-1972) of the Illinois
Municipal Code, approved 5-29-1961, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 111.012) (Ord. 73-003, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 21-019, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Village police officers are authorized to issue citations to the owner
of any mobile home or trailer coach that is in violation of any section of this
chapter.
   (B)   Village police officers are authorized to issue citations to any
licensee under §
112.02 with a mobile home or trailer coach in violation of any section of this
chapter within its mobile home park.
   (C)   A violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $2,500.
(Ord. 21-019, passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 113: SOLID WASTE HAULERS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Unmarketability of recyclables
   
113.02   Unlicensed waste collection prohibited
   
113.03   Collection of over-sized solid waste
   
113.04   Customer responsibilities
   
113.05   Hours of solid waste collection
Licenses
   
113.20   License required
   
113.21   Application
   
113.22   Procedures for granting or denying; appeals
   
113.23   Conditions of licensure
   
113.24   Rate structures
   
113.25   License; duration; license fee; contractual obligations
   
113.26   Records
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 UNMARKETABILITY OF RECYCLABLES.
   A licensee may relieve itself of the obligation to pick up and dispose of
any class of recyclable materials by submitting to the village proof of the
lack of a reasonable market for such recyclable material. Proof shall consist
of a written statement detailing the efforts the licensee has made to seek a
market for that class of recyclable material and any other written material the
licensee may have in its possession regarding market trends. Upon receipt of
such material, the village shall have 30 working days in which to verify the
validity of the licensee’s statement and to seek a market for the class of
recyclable materials. If the village finds the licensee’s statement is correct
and is unable to find a market, the licensee may, upon 14 calendar days’ notice
to its customers, require the customers to place the unmarketable class of
recyclable material with the unseparated solid waste for pickup. With any
subsequent license application, the licensee shall submit written information
substantiating the continued unavailability of a market for that class of
recyclable materials.
(Prior Code, § 112.006) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.02 UNLICENSED WASTE COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation not licensed hereunder may collect or
transport solid waste within the corporate limits of the village. No person
other than a licensee hereunder may remove recyclable materials from any
premises located within the corporate limits of the village. This section shall
not be a limitation on the right of any benefit, non-profit, religious,
charitable or education organization to collect recyclable materials on the
premises of such organization, or on the right of any person to give recyclable
materials to such organizations or to sell or give his or her own recyclable
materials to a recyclable dealer.
(Prior Code, § 112.007) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 COLLECTION OF OVER-SIZED SOLID WASTE.
   A licensee under this chapter shall have no obligation to collect, but may
collect for a fee set forth in the licensee’s rate structure, solid waste
materials, including, but not limited to, appliances, furniture, carpets, trees
and the like, which do not fit into a 32-gallon container or 33-gallon bag or
weigh in excess of 60 pounds per item. From time to time, the village may make
arrangements for the pickup, disposal and, where appropriate, recycling of such
materials. Residents of any commercial and industrial establishments in the
village may themselves remove and dispose of such materials or contract with
non-licensees hereunder for the removal of such materials.
(Prior Code, § 112.008) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.04 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No residential customer of a license shall, without prior agreement
with the waste hauler:
       (1)   Place unseparated and unbagged solid waste or yard waste for
collection in any can larger than 32 gallons or yard waste in any bag larger
than 33 gallons;
       (2)   Place more than 60 pounds of unseparated solid waste or yard waste
in any 32-gallon can; and/or
       (3)   Place a can of solid waste for collection which is not firmly
covered with a lid.
   (B)   No licensee is required to pick up any can or bag of solid waste which
is in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 112.011) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 HOURS OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   No licensed solid waste hauler shall collect solid waste within the
corporate limits of the village at any time other than between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 112.012) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
LICENSES
§ 113.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and
subject to §
113.03 of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation shall engage in the
business of solid waste hauling or disposal within the corporate limits of the
village unless licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.001) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation may obtain a license to collect solid
waste within the village by submitting an application for license to the
Village Clerk and paying an annual license fee as set forth in §
113.25 of this chapter.
   (B)   The applications shall be on forms prescribed by the village and shall
contain the following information about and agreements of the waste hauler:
      (1)   The name, business address and telephone number of the person, firm
or corporation;
      (2)   If the waste hauler is a corporation, the corporation shall provide
a certificate of good standing and the name, address and telephone number of
the corporation’s president and of its registered agent;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall provide the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of all partners holding greater than a
5% interest;
      (4)   If the applicant is doing business under an assumed name, the
applicant shall provide a copy of the assumed name certificate filed with the
County Clerk, if a natural person, and of the assumed name certificate filed
with the Secretary of State, if a corporation;
      (5)   The applicant shall provide proof of liability insurance in the
amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence, including insurance for each vehicle, and
shall agree to keep such insurance in force during the term of the license;
      (6)   The applicant shall provide proof of workers’ compensation
insurance covering its employees in the statutory amount and shall agree to
keep such insurance in force during the term of its license;
      (7)   The applicant shall attach a schedule of rates which it will charge
upon the license being granted, and shall agree to provide the village with
written notice of any rate changes at least 60 days in advance of rate changes.
However, the first notification after passage of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall require only a 30-day notification;
      (8)   The applicant shall agree to observe all provisions and conditions
of this chapter during the term of its license;
      (9)   If, in accordance with §
113.01 of this chapter, the applicant proposes not to recycle a class of
recyclable materials due to the unavailability of markets, the applicant shall
include with the application, or may submit under separate cover, proof of the
unavailability of the market;
      (10)   The application shall be signed by the applicant or a responsible
officer of the applicant; and
      (11)   The applicant shall agree to clearly mark each vehicle used for
solid waste collection with the applicant’s name.
(Prior Code, § 112.002) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.22 PROCEDURES FOR GRANTING OR DENYING; APPEALS.
   (A)   Applications for solid waste hauling licenses shall be submitted to
the Village Clerk, who shall process the applications within seven working days
and either grant or deny the license. If the license is denied, the village
shall state the reason for the denial in writing. Thereupon, the applicant may
appeal in accordance with division (B) below; or may, within ten days, resubmit
a license application curing any deficiencies, without having to pay an
additional license fee. The village shall grant the license or render a final
decision denying the license, within seven working days of resubmission.
   (B)   In the event a license is denied, the applicant may appeal the denial
of the application to the Village Board within seven working days of the final
denial, and may request a hearing. The Village Board’s determination shall be
reviewable in accordance with state statutes pertaining to administrative
review.
(Prior Code, § 112.003) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.23 CONDITIONS OF LICENSURE.
   A licensee under this chapter shall, as a condition of licensure, do the
following things.
   (A)   The licensee shall pick up and segregate by class the following
classes of solid waste:
      (1)   Unseparated solid waste, which shall consist of solid waste of all
descriptions other than yard waste, including recyclable materials that have
not been segregated by the customer;
      (2)   Recyclable materials, which shall include aluminum cans; steel
cans; tin-coated cans; bimetal cans; glass bottles and jars of all colors; No.
1 plastic; No. 2 plastic; and newspapers. Recyclable materials shall be
separated by the customer from other classes of solid waste and placed in
separate marked bins. Newspapers shall be placed in paper bags or baled with
twine. Plastic bottles may be tied together with twine. The village reserves
the right to expand the definition of recyclable materials due to changing
market conditions, without affecting the validity of the license; and
      (3)   Yard waste, which shall include leaves, grass clippings, wood
chips, twigs and garden waste such as weeds and stalks, when segregated and
bagged in accordance with the regulations of the facility which accepts such
yard waste from the solid waste hauler.
   (B)   The licensee shall transport and dispose of unseparated solid waste in
the Sangamon Valley landfill, when accessible or by any other method permitted
by state and federal law.
   (C)   The licensee shall transport and dispose of recyclable materials by
selling or giving such materials to dealers in recyclable materials. Recyclable
materials shall be recycled and shall not be disposed of in a solid waste
landfill or other methods without the express approval of the Village Board.
Unauthorized disposal of recyclable material may result in the cancellation of
the waste haulers license and subject to fines as provided for in §
113.99(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   The licensee shall transport yard waste to composting centers or other
facilities which accept yard waste only.
   (E)   Each licensee shall be responsible for handling the recyclable
materials and yard waste of its own customers; however, licensees may agree
among themselves to handle the recyclable materials and yard waste of another
licensee.
   (F)   The licensee shall comply with this chapter and all other ordinances
of the village and with state, county and federal laws and regulations
pertaining to solid waste management.
   (G)   On or before the fifteenth day of each month, the licensee shall
provide the village with data regarding the number of customers, volume, by
category, of solid waste collected, where each type of material was disposed of
or sold in the previous month and shall provide any other data the village may
reasonably require.
(Prior Code, § 112.004) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.24 RATE STRUCTURES.
   A licensee may set its own rates, subject only to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   The licensee shall set volume-based rates for commercial and
industrial customers for collection of unseparated solid waste and shall
dispose of recyclable materials from such customers free of charge. The
licensee may agree with such customers on any frequency of pickup of solid
waste; provided that, all waste is picked up at least once per week. Because
the needs of commercial and industrial customers vary from customer to
customer, the licensee need not announce a rate of general applicability, and
is free, subject to state and federal law, to discriminate among commercial and
industrial customers in the matter of rates.
   (B)   For residential customers, each licensee shall charge a basic fee,
which will entitle each customer to a once weekly pickup and disposal of two
32-gallon garbage cans or two 33-gallon bags of unseparated solid waste, not to
exceed 60 pounds each, from 3-15-1994 until 10-4-1994. Thereafter, each
residential customer will be entitled to a once weekly pickup and disposal of
one 32-gallon garbage can, not to exceed 60 pounds. For unseparated solid waste
in excess of the basic service, the licensee shall charge a per 32-gallon can
or 33-gallon bag fee. The customer shall purchase stickers for such additional
cans and bags from the licensee or village office, and shall affix a sticker to
each additional can or bag to be picked up in addition to the basic service.
The rates for residential customers shall be of general applicability, and
there shall be no discrimination among residential customers as to rates;
however, senior citizen discounts are permissible.
   (C)   Recyclable materials shall be picked up from residential customers
free of charge.
   (D)   Rates for disposal of yard waste shall be volume-based. The licensee
shall charge separately for each 32-gallon can or 33-gallon bag of yard waste.
The customer shall purchase stickers from the licensee or village office and
shall affix a sticker to each can or bag of yard waste. A yard waste sticker
shall cost no less than a sticker for unseparated solid waste.
   (E)   A licensee may change its rates from time to time in its discretion.
The licensee shall provide the village with a copy of any rate change for
residential customers at least 60 days in advance of the rate change and shall
inform each residential customer of the rate change in writing at least 30 days
in advance of its effective date. However, the first notification after passage
of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall require only a 30-day
notification. Notice to customers may, in the discretion of the licensee, be
made by an insert in the monthly bill. No rate change shall be effective unless
these notice provisions are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 112.005) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.25 LICENSE; DURATION; LICENSE FEE; CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The annual license fee shall be $250. A license shall be effective
from May 1 of any year through and including April 30 of the following year.
The license fee for applications received after May 1 of any year or before
April 30 of any year will not be prorated. Initial licenses issued before 4-30-
1994 shall be valid until 5-1-1995.
   (B)   A license granted hereunder shall constitute a contract pursuant to §
11-19-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code for the duration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 112.009) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.26 RECORDS.
   The village shall design and obtain license and data collection forms for
issuance to each licensee hereunder and shall maintain records of all licenses
granted and denied hereunder. The licenses granted hereunder shall be serial
numbered. All license applications and records pertaining to grants and denials
of licenses shall be subject to disclosure to the public under the Freedom of
Information Act and village policies implementing the act.
(Prior Code, § 112.010) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Village Police Department, Public Works Department and Village
Board are hereby authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The village may revoke the license of any licensee who fails to comply
with the conditions of licensure set forth in §
113.23 of this chapter. The village shall, before revoking a license, order a
licensee to show cause why the license should not be revoked, and shall specify
the deficiencies which the village believes exist. The licensee shall, within
ten days of the date of the notice, provide the village with written reasons
and evidence why the license should not be revoked. Within five days of receipt
of such evidence, the village shall render a decision, which may be appealed by
the licensee in the same manner as denial of licenses in accordance with §
113.22(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.999) (Ord. 169, passed - -; Ord. 89-004, passed - -; Ord.
94-005, passed 3-16-1994)
CHAPTER 114: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Minimum physical requirements
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Application
   
114.05   Reasons for disqualification
   
114.06   Issuance of license
   
114.07   License fee and tax
   
114.08   Minors; inspection
   
114.09   Revocation of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap and iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum, tin,
lead or other base metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste paper,
paper clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass, and empty
bottles of different kinds and sizes, any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle,
engine or machinery, and all articles and things discarded or no longer used as
a manufactured article composed of or consisting of any one or more of the
materials or articles herein mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation that shall
engage in the business of buying, selling, bartering or exchanging, or that
shall collect, receive, store or hold in possession for sale, barter or
exchange, any of the things in and by this section defined as “junk”.
   JUNKYARD. The premises on which a junk dealer is engaged in the business of
buying, selling, bartering, exchanging or collecting, receiving, storing or
holding in possession for sale, barter or exchange, any of the things in and by
this section defined as “junk”.
(Prior Code, § 113.001) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
§ 114.02 MINIMUM PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements at all times for each junkyard shall be as
follows.
    (A)   The premises where the junkyard is located shall not have more than
two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom, each of which shall not exceed
15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
    (B)   The premises where the junkyard is located shall be enclosed on its
perimeter with a solid, non-transparent, vertical wall or fence of a minimum
height of seven feet measured from ground level, excepting for the entrances
and exits permitted by division (A) above.
    (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence, and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits, shall not contain any
sign, poster or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign
of the licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
    (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junkyard shall not have
junk thereon.
(Prior Code, § 113.002) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to
keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junkyard within the corporate limits of
the village without first obtaining a license so to do as herein provided. A
separate license shall be secured for each junkyard located on non-contiguous
lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land.
(Prior Code, § 113.003) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 APPLICATION.
   Before any license under the provisions of this chapter is issued, any
person, firm, partnership or corporation desiring to operate a junkyard in the
village shall first make a verified application in writing to the Village
Clerk, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his or her residence
address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of the premises
where the junkyard is to be located, the size and approximate location of each
entrance thereto and exit therefrom, whether or not the premises where the
junkyard is to be located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-
transparent wall or fence of a minimum height of seven feet measured from
ground level, excepting the entrances and exits, and whether or not the public
streets and alleys adjacent to the premises where the junkyard is to be located
has junk thereon. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, the names and
residence addresses of all the partners and, in case of a corporation, the
names and residence addresses of the president and secretary, shall be stated
in the application.
(Prior Code, § 113.004) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
§ 114.05 REASONS FOR DISQUALIFICATION.
   Any applicant for a license to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junkyard
shall be disqualified for any of the following reasons:
    (A)   Not a person of good character;
    (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder;
    (C)   License for a junkyard theretofore issued to the applicant has been
revoked during the preceding 24 months; and/or
    (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junkyard, as specified in §
114.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.005) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
§ 114.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall state that such license is
issued in the name of the junk dealer solely for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, conducting and operating a junkyard, the expiration date thereof,
the legal description of the premises where the junkyard is to be located, that
such license shall be used and the privileges thereof exercised only at the
described premises, and that such license is non-assignable and non-
transferable.
   (B)   Such license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all
the provisions of this chapter; that, upon the first conviction for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine, such
junkyard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that, upon the second
conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
license shall become null and void, and the licensee shall forfeit all sums
paid for such license, and that the licensee by the acceptance of such license
expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof and to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, and all amendments thereof.
(Prior Code, § 113.006) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
§ 114.07 LICENSE FEE AND TAX.
   There is hereby levied and imposed a license fee and tax on all junkyards in
the village in the amount of $2,500 per year. This license fee and tax shall be
paid at the time the junkyard operator applies for a license and shall not in
any event be subject to proration for a portion of a year. The license shall
expire on April 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 113.007) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968; Ord. 2000-025, passed 7-3-
2000)
§ 114.08 MINORS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever
from any minors without the written consent of their parents or guardians.
   (B)   Any licensee hereunder shall at all times allow any police officer or
patrol officer of the village and the public health authorities free access to
any and all portions of the junkyard for the purpose of inspection.
(Prior Code, § 113.008) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The President of the village may revoke the license of any licensee
hereunder for violating, failing or refusing to comply with any provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.009) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200, for
each offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.999) (Ord. 181, passed 1-16-1968)
CHAPTER 115: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax
§ 115.01 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   (A)   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
under the authority of the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (35
ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.) upon the act or privilege of originating in the
municipality or receiving in the municipality intrastate or interstate
telecommunications by a person is hereby changed to 4% of the gross charges for
such telecommunications purchased at retail.
   (B)   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law,
provided, however, that division (A) above shall take effect for all gross
charges billed by telecommunications retailers on and after the first day of
July, 2005. The Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before
3-20-2005.
(Ord. 05-, passed - -2005)
CHAPTER 116: TOBACCO
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Processing of application
   
116.04   Reasons for rejection of license application
   
116.05   License fee
   
116.06   Non-transferability of license
   
116.07   Prohibited sales
   
116.08   Minimum age to sell tobacco products
   
116.09   Vending machines
   
116.10   Vendor-assisted sales
   
116.11   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
116.12   Inspection
   
116.13   Administration
   
116.14   Complaints
   
116.15   Hearings
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECK. An inspection conducted with the intention of assessing
retail sales of tobacco products to minors and enforcing age-of-sales laws.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS are conducted by having designated persons under the age of
18 years of age attempt to purchase tobacco products from vendors.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the village for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   LICENSEE. The holder of a valid license for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including, but not limited to, any right-of-way, mall or shopping
center, park, playground and any other property owned by the village, any
school district, library district or any park district.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAYS. Open displays of tobacco products and point-of-sale
tobacco promotional products that the public has access to without intervention
of a store employee.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 117.001) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail tobacco
products or to have or permit a vending machine from which tobacco is sold or
offered for sale on any premises within the village, without having first
obtained a valid tobacco retailer’s license from the village for each location
in which tobacco products are sold. Licenses shall be non-refundable and shall
be issued on July 1 and shall be valid through the following June 30.
   (B)   If, at the time application is made for a license required by this
chapter, less than six months of the current license year shall have expired,
the full fee shall be charged. If more than six months of such current year
shall have expired, a license fee of one-half of the full fee shall be charged
for such portion of the current license year that shall remain unexpired.
(Prior Code, § 117.002) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application shall be on a form designed by the Tobacco Official.
The Tobacco Official shall receive the application, review it for completeness
and, in his or her discretion, refer it to the Chief of Police for a background
check and physical inspection of the applicant’s premises. If the Tobacco
Official refers the application to the Chief of Police, the Chief shall render
a report to the Tobacco Official within five working days. The Tobacco Official
shall grant or reject a license application within ten working days.
   (B)   By applying for a license, an applicant consents to the Police
Department performing a background check and the background check may extend to
all officers, directors and persons with more than a 5% ownership interest. The
applicant also consents to the Police Department making a physical inspection
of the premises upon which the applicant intends to sell tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 117.003) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.04 REASONS FOR REJECTION OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   No person shall be entitled to a license who:
    (A)   Has in the preceding ten years been convicted of a felony or a
misdemeanor involving dishonesty or the possession or use of controlled
substances, or the violation of state law pertaining to the sale of tobacco
products;
    (B)   Has had a tobacco sales license issued by the village or any other
municipality revoked during the preceding two years;
    (C)   If a corporation, limited liability company or partnership, has an
officer, director or person with more than a 5% ownership interest who would
not qualify for a license; and/or
    (D)   If operating or allowing the operation of a vending machine, does not
comply with §
116.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.004) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a one-year tobacco retailer’s license is $10 for each tobacco
retail location.
(Prior Code, § 117.005) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.06 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   A tobacco retail license is non-transferable, but a new license will be
issued to a tobacco retailer who changes location without payment of an
additional license fee.
(Prior Code, § 117.006) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.07 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee, owner, officer,
director or agent of a licensee, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver
tobacco products to any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 117.007) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or officer, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit any person under
18 years of age to sell tobacco products on any vendor’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 117.008) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for
sale, or permit the sale of tobacco products by others by use of a vending
machine on premises owned or controlled by the licensee, unless such vending
machine is:
      (A)   Equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device
controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its operation by persons under the
age of 18 years; or
      (B)   Located in a manner that will allow it to be easily and readily
observed by the licensee or the licensee’s employees or agents during all
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 117.009)
   (B)   Certain premises. Any premises where access by persons under the age
of 18 years is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where the only manner of distribution is through vending machines
that are strictly for the use of employees of business located at such
premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of §
116.08 of this chapter and the license requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.010)
(Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 VENDOR-ASSISTED SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, person, business or tobacco retailer
to sell, permit to be sold or offer for sale any tobacco product by means of
self-service displays or any other means other than vendor-assisted sales,
except as provided in §§
116.09 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.011) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of any nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Prior Code, § 117.012) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.12 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, or his or her designees, and
they are hereby authorized and empowered to conduct random, unannounced
inspections of all places wherein such tobacco products are licensed to be
sold, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the laws of the state and of the
village in relation to the same, are being complied with at such place. The
Chief of Police is empowered to make compliance checks on licensees and, to
that end, to utilize persons under the age of 18 to attempt to purchase tobacco
products from licensees.
(Prior Code, § 117.013) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.13 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Tobacco Official, who shall be
an officer of the village appointed by the Village President, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, and may be a village employee. The Tobacco
Official shall have a salary of $35 per hearing and his or her compensation may
not be reduced during a term of office. The Tobacco Official shall have a term
beginning on June 1 of each year and ending on May 31 of the succeeding year,
or until his or her successor has been appointed and has qualified.
   (B)   The Tobacco Official’s duties shall include the following:
      (1)   To review license application forms and grant or deny licenses;
      (2)   To pay over to the Village Treasurer any license fees and fines
received by the Tobacco Official;
      (3)   To conduct hearings on charges of violations of this chapter in
accordance with this section; and
      (4)   To impose penalties for violations in accordance with §
116.14 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.014) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.14 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever a police officer becomes aware of a violation of this chapter, the
officer may initiate a complaint against the licensee with the Tobacco
Official.
(Prior Code, § 117.015) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.15 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Tobacco Official may revoke or suspend any license if he or she
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   No such license shall be revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be
fined, except after a public hearing by the Tobacco Official with a three-day
written notice to licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public and the Tobacco Official
shall see to it that the proceedings are transcribed by a certified Court
reporter. The Village Attorney shall prosecute the matter.
   (C)   If the Tobacco Official has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, suspend
the license and order the cessation of sales of tobacco products for not more
than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period.
   (D)   The Tobacco Official shall, within five days after such hearing if he
or she determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for
such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the
period of suspension or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee.
   (E)   Any licensee found to have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, in addition to any fine, be liable to the village for costs of
the hearing on such violation. Costs shall include Court reporter’s fees and
the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other
miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
Village President may allow.
   (F)   Determinations by the Tobacco Official pursuant to this section are
subject to judicial review pursuant to the Administrative Review Law.
   (G)   The licensee shall pay fines and costs to the village within 30 days;
except that, the duty to pay fines and costs shall be suspended during the
pendency of any appeal. Failure to pay fines and costs within 30 days shall
result in revocation of license without further hearing.
   (H)   Fines and cost, if not paid, may be collected by the village in an
action at law.
(Prior Code, § 117.016) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   In lieu of suspension or revocation, as stated in §
116.15 of this chapter, the Tobacco Official may instead levy a fine on the
licensee for any violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $500 for each
violation; each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. Not more than $5,000 in fines under this section may be imposed
against any licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 117.016) (Ord. 2008-018, passed 6-2-2008)
CHAPTER 117: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Fair housing violations prohibited
   
117.03   Fair housing violations in connection with real estate transactions
   
117.04   Disability
   
117.05   Blockbusting
   
117.06   Exemptions
   
117.07   Exemption for housing for older persons
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   DWELLING. Includes any improved or unimproved real property, or part
thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with: parent or person having legal custody of such
individual or individuals; or the designee of such parent or other person
having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or other
person. The protections afforded by this section against discrimination on the
basis of FAMILIAL STATUS apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the
process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the
age of 18 years.
   HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS. Housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development has determined to be specifically designed and
operated to assist elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal
program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESPERSON. A person, whether licensed or not, who,
for or with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells,
purchases, exchanges, rents or leases real property, or who negotiates or
attempts to negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself or herself
out as engaged in these.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. Includes the sale, exchange, rental or lease of
real property. REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION also includes the brokering or
appraising of residential real property and the making or purchasing of loans
or providing other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling; or secured by residential real
estate.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes all real estate and interests therein, including
buildings, structures, lands, leaseholds and condominiums.
(Prior Code, § 118.001) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 117.02 FAIR HOUSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit a fair housing violation, as defined in §§
117.03 through
117.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.002) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 FAIR HOUSING VIOLATIONS IN CONNECTION WITH REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
   It is a fair housing violation for an owner or any other person engaging in
a real estate transaction, or for a real estate broker or salesperson, because
of unlawful discrimination or familial status, to:
   (A)   Refuse to engage in a real estate transaction or otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to a person including the making of loans or the
provision of other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling; or the making of loans or the
provision of other financial assistance secured by residential real estate;
   (B)   Alter the terms, conditions or privileges of a real estate transaction
or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   Refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer to engage
in a real estate transaction from a person;
   (D)   Refuse to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person;
   (E)   Represent to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when, in fact, it is so available, or to fail
to bring a property listing to his or her attention, or to refuse to permit him
or her to inspect real property;
   (F)   Print, circulate, post, mail, publish or cause to be so published a
written or oral statement, advertisement or sign, or to use a form of
application for a real estate transaction, or to make a record or inquiry in
connection with a prospective real estate transaction, which expresses any
limitation or preference founded upon, or indicated, directly or indirectly,
with an intent to engage in unlawful discrimination or discrimination based on
familial status;
   (G)   Offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property with
knowledge that unlawful discrimination or discrimination on the basis of
familial status in a real estate transaction is intended; and/or
   (H)   Deny a person access to, membership or participation in the multiple
listing service, real estate brokers organization or other service.
(Prior Code, § 118.003) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 DISABILITY.
   (A)   It is a fair housing violation to refuse to sell or rent or to
otherwise make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of
a disability of that buyer or renter, or disability of a person residing or
intending to reside in that dwelling after it is sold, rented or made available
or a disability of any person associated with the buyer or renter.
   (B)   It is a fair housing violation to alter the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a person’s disability or
a disability of any person residing or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available, or a disability of any person
associated with that person.
   (C)   It is a fair housing violation:
      (1)   To refuse to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such
person full enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental,
the landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. A landlord may condition permission for a modification on the renter
providing a reasonable description of the proposed modifications as well as
reasonable assurances that the work will be done in a workmanlike manner and
that any required building permits will be obtained; and/or
      (2)   To refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford a
person with a disability equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 118.004) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 BLOCKBUSTING.
   It is a fair housing violation for any person to:
   (A)   Solicit for sale, lease, listing or purchase any residential real
estate within the village, on the grounds of loss of value due to the present
or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, sex, sexual preference, marital status, familial status or disability;
   (B)   Distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or statements
designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in the village to sell
or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective changes in
the race, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual preference,
marital status, familial status or disability of residents in the vicinity of
the property involved; and/or
   (C)   Intentionally create alarm, among residents of any community, by
transmitting communications in any manner, including a telephone call whether
or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any owner of
residential real estate in the village to sell or lease his or her property
because of any present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property
involved of any person or persons of any particular race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual preference, marital status,
familial status or disability.
(Prior Code, § 118.005) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following transactions, persons and practices are exempt from the
requirements of §§
117.02 through
117.04 of this chapter:
   (A)   Sale of a single-family home, condominium or separately-owned half of
a duplex by its owner so long as:
      (1)   The owner does not own or have a beneficial interest in more than
three single-family homes at the time of the sale;
      (2)   The owner was the last current resident of the home;
      (3)   The home is sold without the use in any manner of the sales or
rental facilities or services of any real estate broker or salesperson, or of
any employee or agent of any real estate broker or salesperson; and/or
      (4)   The home is sold without the publication, posting or mailing, after
notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
117.03(F) of this chapter.
   (B)   Rental of a dwelling unit in a building containing four or fewer
dwelling units, if the lessor resides in one of the dwelling units;
   (C)   Reasonable local, state or federal restrictions regarding the maximum
number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling;
   (D)   A religious organization, association or society, or any non-profit
institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from
limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color or national origin;
   (E)   Restricting the rental of rooms in a dwelling to persons of one gender
where compelling privacy reasons exist;
   (F)   Restricting the sale or rental of real property to persons who have
been convicted by any Court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal
manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, or persons on the state
sex offender list; and/or
   (G)   Persons engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of real
property from taking into consideration factors other than those based on
unlawful discrimination or familial status in furnishing appraisals.
(Prior Code, § 118.006) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 117.07 EXEMPTION FOR HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS.
   No provision in §
117.02 of this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with respect to
housing for older persons.
(Prior Code, § 118.007) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Persons found to have violated this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $500, nor more than $750, for each offense. Each day a violation
continues, and each separate publication of a notice violating this chapter,
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 118.008) (Ord. 2011-016, passed 6-20-2011)
CHAPTER 118: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Devices constituting nuisances prohibited
   
118.03   Gambling prohibited
   
118.04   Placement or use of unregistered devices
   
118.05   Amusement licensing requirements
   
118.06   Application and issuance of license
   
118.07   License for registered coin-operated amusement devices
   
118.08   Duration of license; fees
   
118.09   Revocation of license
   
118.10   Rights under license and transferability of license or registration
   
118.11   License inspector
   
118.12   Present operator’s compliance
Carnivals
   
118.25   Definitions
   
118.26   Carnival licensing requirements
   
118.27   Application and issuance of license
   
118.28   Safety requirements
   
118.29   Carnival games
   
118.30   Issuance of a license
   
118.31   Duration of license; fees
   
118.32   Revocation of license
   
118.33   Rights under license and transferability of license or registration
   
118.34   License inspectors
Video Gaming
   
118.45   Definitions
   
118.46   Video gaming permitted
   
118.47   Payment of fee
 
   
118.99   Penalty
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device which is
operated or put into operation in whole or in part by the insertion of a coin,
token or similar object; is operated for amusement or skill only; and does not
dispense any form of payoff, prize or reward other than free replays. The term
excludes any bona fide vending machine, in which gaming or amusement features
are not incorporated, or any gambling device or slot machine. In the case of
devices which may be played with or without a coin-operated device, only the
attached device which requires a coin to operate it shall be deemed to be a
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any business enterprise or location open to the general
public or the facilities of an organization or incorporated association or
group within the village.
   LICENSE INSPECTOR. An agent, officer or employee of the village who inspects
coin-operated amusement devices to ascertain whether proper licenses have been
procured and posted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
   MANAGER. The person who has primary responsibility for the on-site operation
of an establishment in which coin-operated amusement devices are located.
   OPERATOR. Any person who owns, leases or provides any coin-operated
amusement device.
   PERSON. Any individual; corporation, whether profit or not for profit;
partnership; and club or association, whether fraternal or civic.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. As defined in the Video Gaming Act and licensed by
the State of Illinois, a VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL is not a “coin-operated
amusement device.”
(Prior Code, § 115.001) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.02 DEVICES CONSTITUTING NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No coin-operated amusement device shall be operated so as to constitute a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 115.002) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No coin-operated amusement device shall be used for gambling. No gambling
shall occur on the premises where there is a coin-operated amusement device
unless the premises is a licensed establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment or licensed veterans' establishment as those terms are defined in
§§
118.45 of this code.
§ 118.04 PLACEMENT OR USE OF UNREGISTERED DEVICES.
   No person, nor manager, shall allow the placement or use of any coin-
operated amusement device, in an establishment in the village, unless the
device has been registered by the operator pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.004) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 AMUSEMENT LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any operator who places any coin-operated amusement device in any
establishment shall obtain a coin-operated amusement device operator’s license.
   (B)   Any person licensed as an operator shall register each coin-operated
amusement device placed in any establishment within the village.
   (C)   No person convicted of conducting any gambling activity shall be
issued a coin-operated amusement device operator’s license.
(Prior Code, § 115.005) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a coin-operated amusement device operator’s license
shall be filed with, and on the form provided by, the Village Clerk. The
application form shall contain the required information as to each person
applying for a license, be sworn to and signed by the applicant. Where the
applicant is a corporation, all officers shall sign, indicating their official
capacity, and verify the application. Where a partnership is an applicant, all
partners shall sign and verify the application.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a completed registration list
which shall list all coin-operated amusement devices placed in any
establishment within the village by an operator. This list shall be amended
during the licensing period to reflect the registration of additional devices.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall forward all completed application forms to the
President of the Village Board of Trustees who shall present it to the Board at
a regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Board shall be responsible for approving operator licenses. Upon
receipt of any application, the Board of Trustees may approve an operator’s
license for the applicant; provided that, the requirements of this subchapter
have been met.
   (E)   In the event that the Board does not approve an operator’s license,
the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the reason for the Board’s
action and shall be entitled to a rehearing before the Village Board of
Trustees at the applicant’s request. Upon completion of such hearing, the Board
of Trustees may approve the application; provided that, it is determined that
the requirements of this subchapter have been met.
   (F)   After a license has been approved, it shall be issued only upon
payment of the required fees.
(Prior Code, § 115.006) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.07 LICENSE FOR REGISTERED COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall issue the operator of any coin-operated
amusement device a license for each registered device in the registration list.
This license shall indicate the device registration number and the year of
issue.
   (B)   Any licensed operator may, upon proof of loss or destruction of a
license and payment of a replacement fee of $5 to the Village Clerk, obtain a
new license. The Village Clerk shall note the destruction of the original
license.
   (C)   The license shall be displayed conspicuously near the device, in the
same room with it or upon it as the Village Clerk shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 115.007) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.08 DURATION OF LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   A coin-operated amusement device operator’s license and a coin-
operated amusement device registration shall be valid for a 12-month period
commencing July 1 of each year.
   (B)   The coin-operated amusement device operator’s license fee and a coin-
operated amusement device registration fee shall be as follows:
 
Classification                              Amount Period Expiration
Coin-operated amusement device (per device) $25    1 year June 30
Coin-operated amusement device operator     $50    1 year June 30
 
   (C)   Both a coin-operated amusement device operator license fee and a coin-
operated amusement device registration fee shall be paid pursuant to the
following schedule:
 
Month License or Registration Issued Amount of Fee
July to December                     Full fee
January to June                      Half fee
 
(Prior Code, § 115.008) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may revoke the license of a coin-operated
amusement device operator for up to a year or remove or cause to be removed a
particular device or devices from the licensed operator’s approved registration
list for violation of any provisions of this subchapter, or of state or federal
statutes. In such an event, no refund shall be made of any portion of any such
license or registration fee.
   (B)   On the revocation of the coin-operated amusement device operator’s
license, all devices of that operator shall be automatically removed from the
approved registration list.
   (C)   Prior to any license revocation or registration removal, the operator
shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard by the Board of Trustees
to rebut the basis for the proposed revocation or removal.
(Prior Code, § 115.009) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.10 RIGHTS UNDER LICENSE AND TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A coin-operated amusement device operator’s license shall entitle the
licensee to operate any number of coin-operated amusement devices in the
village so long as such devices are properly registered.
   (B)   The license and registration required and described in this subchapter
shall be purely a personal privilege, shall not constitute property and shall
not be transferable in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 115.010) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.11 LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There shall be a license inspector or license inspectors appointed by
and subordinate to the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Without limiting the power and duties as prescribed by law and
ordinance, any license inspector shall:
      (1)   Inspect coin-operated amusement devices to ascertain whether they
bear evidence of registration as required by this subchapter; and
      (2)   Ensure that persons required to have an operator’s license are, in
fact, licensed.
(Prior Code, § 115.011) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.12 PRESENT OPERATOR’S COMPLIANCE.
   Whoever shall be acting as an operator under this subchapter shall have 30
days from the date that the ordinance codified in this subchapter becomes
effective to comply with its provisions before becoming subject to §
118.99(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.013) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
CARNIVALS
§ 118.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT ATTRACTION. An enclosed building or structure, including
electrical equipment which is an integral part of the building structure,
through which people walk without the aid of any moving devices, that provides
amusement, thrills or excitement at a carnival, except any enclosed building or
structure which is subject to the jurisdiction of the building code.
   AMUSEMENT RIDE. Any mechanized device or combination of devices, including
electrical equipment which is an integral part of the device or devices, which
carries passengers along, around or over a fixed or restricted course for
purpose of giving its passengers, amusement, thrills, excitement.
   CARNIVAL. An enterprise which offers amusement or entertainment to the
public by means of one or more amusement attractions or amusement rides.
   CARNIVAL GAMES. Any game in which a person purchases a ticket for the
privilege of participating and for which prizes are offered for winning.
   MANAGER. The person who has primary responsibility for the on-site operation
of the carnival.
   OPERATOR. Any person who owns, leases or operates a carnival.
   PERSON. Any individual; corporation, whether profit or not-for-profit;
partnership; and club or association.
(Prior Code, § 115.020) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.26 CARNIVAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any operator who places a carnival within the limits of the village
shall obtain a carnival operator’s license.
   (B)   A license may be denied to the following persons:
      (1)   Any person convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person convicted of a gambling offense, or offense involving
fraud, deceit or deceptive practice, whether misdemeanor or felony; and/or
      (3)   Any person with two or more violations of the Carnival and
Amusement Ride Safety Act (430 ILCS 85/2-1) or the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 115.021) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.27 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a carnival operator’s license shall be filed with and
on the form provided by the Village Clerk. The application form shall contain
the required information as to each person applying for a license, be sworn to
and be signed by the applicant. Where the applicant is a corporation, all
officers shall sign, indicating their official capacity, and verify the
application. Where a partnership is an applicant, all partners shall sign and
verify the application.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a copy of the permit issued
under the Carnival and Amusement Rides Safety Act for each amusement ride and
amusement attraction. The applicant will also provide the names, permanent
addresses and Social Security numbers for all owners, managers and
concessioners. Traveling carnivals will provide an itinerary listing the
locations at which the carnival operated previous to operating in the village
and the next two locations at which the carnival shall be located after it
leaves the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall forward all completed application forms to the
President of the Village Board of Trustees who shall present it to the Board at
a regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Village Board of Trustees shall be responsible for approving
operator licenses. Upon receipt of any application, the Board of Trustees may
approve an operator’s license for the applicant, provided the requirements of
this subchapter have been met.
   (E)   In the event that the Board does not approve a carnival operator’s
license, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the reason for the
Board’s action and shall be entitled to a rehearing before the Village Board of
Trustees at the applicant’s request. Upon completion of such a hearing, the
Board of Trustees may approve the application; provided, it is determined that
the requirements of this subchapter have been met.
   (F)   After a license has been approved, it shall be issued only upon
payment of the required fee.
(Prior Code, § 115.022) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.28 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Any carnival operating within the village shall comply with the Carnival and
Amusement Rides Safety Act and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder. Any amusement attraction or amusement ride which has been found to
violate the act or rules promulgated thereunder shall cease operation
immediately until the unsafe or hazardous condition is corrected to the
satisfaction of the Department of Labor.
(Prior Code, § 115.023) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.29 CARNIVAL GAMES.
   All carnival games must be conducted in an honest manner without any fraud,
deceit or trickery. No gambling activity shall be conducted at any location at
the carnival site.
(Prior Code, § 115.024) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.30 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall issue the operators licenses. This license
shall indicate the year of issue and time of expiration.
   (B)   Any licensed operator, upon proof of loss or destruction of a license
and payment of a replacement fee to the Village Clerk, may obtain a new
license. The Village Clerk shall note the destruction of the original license.
   (C)   The carnival license shall be displayed conspicuously at a location at
or near the main entrance to the carnival.
(Prior Code, § 115.025) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.31 DURATION OF LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   A carnival operator’s license will be valid for a 12-month period.
   (B)   The carnival operator’s license fee shall be $250 per year or any
portion of a year.
(Prior Code, § 115.026) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988; Ord. 2000-025, passed
7-3-2000)
§ 118.32 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may revoke the license of a carnival operator.
In such an event, no refund shall be made of any portion of such license or
registration fee.
   (B)   On revocation of the carnival operator’s license, the carnival shall
cease operation in its entirety. Operation of any amusement ride, amusement
attraction, carnival game or concession is prohibited.
   (C)   Prior to any license revocation, the operator shall be afforded a
reasonable opportunity to be heard by the Board of Trustees to rebut the basis
for the proposed revocation.
   (D)   Cause for revocation shall be the violation of any provision of this
subchapter; two or more violations of the Carnival and Amusement Rides Safety
Act or the rules and regulation promulgated thereunder, or violation of the
laws of the state or of any other state or federal statutes.
(Prior Code, § 115.027) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.33 RIGHTS UNDER LICENSE AND TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A carnival operator’s license shall entitle the licensee to operate a
carnival within the village.
   (B)   The license required and described in this subchapter shall be a
personal privilege, shall not constitute property and shall not be transferable
in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 115.028) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
§ 118.34 LICENSE INSPECTORS.
   (A)   There shall be a license inspector or inspectors appointed by and
subordinate to the President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   (B)   Without limiting the power and duties as prescribed by law and
ordinances, any license inspector shall:
      (1)   Ensure that persons required to have a carnival license are, in
fact, licensed;
      (2)   Ensure that all games are operated in an honest manner;
      (3)   Ensure that all amusement rides and attractions are safe and
operated in a safe manner; and
      (4)   Ensure that all provisions of this subchapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 115.029) (Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988)
VIDEO GAMING
§ 118.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail establishment which is licensed under
Ch. 111 of this code of ordinances and where alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured,
mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the premises.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility located within three
road miles from a freeway interchange, as measured in accordance with the
Department of Transportation's rules regarding the criteria for the
installation of business signs: (1) that is at least a three-acre facility with
a convenience store, (2) with separate diesel islands for fueling commercial
motor vehicles, (3) that sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month, and (4) with parking spaces for commercial motor
vehicles. COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES has the same meaning as defined in § 18b-
101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The requirement of item (3) of this
definition may be met by showing that estimated future sales or past sales
average at least 50,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility (1) that is at least a three-
acre facility with a convenience store, (2) with separate diesel islands for
fueling commercial motor vehicles, (3) that sells at retail more than 10,000
gallons of diesel or biodiesel fuel per month, and (4) with parking spaces for
commercial motor vehicles. COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES has the same meaning as
defined in § 18b-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The requirement of item (3)
of this definition may be met by showing that estimated future sales or past
sales average at least 10,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED VETERANS' ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans’
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL.
      (1)   Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion of cash, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not
limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the State
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash.
      (2)   The term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins,
cash or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 12-010, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 22-007, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 22-17,
passed 8-29-2022)
§ 118.46 VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any provision of any village ordinance heretofore adopted,
including, but not limited to, §
111.51 of this code of ordinances, video gaming from video gaming terminals
licensed by the state and operated pursuant to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq., is permitted in the village at licensed establishments, licensed
fraternal establishments, licensed veterans’ establishments, licensed truck
stop establishments and licensed large truck stop establishments.
(Ord. 12-010, passed 6-18-2012; Ord 22-007, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 22-17,
passed 8-29-2022)
§ 118.47 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   Each licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishment and
licensed veterans establishment within the village shall pay a fee of $25 per
video gaming terminal per year to the village.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid:
      (1)   Upon initial receipt of a license from the state (prorated for the
number of days remaining in the year from the initial date of licensure); and
      (2)   On or before January 15 of each year thereafter.
   (C)   Upon payment of the fee, the licensed establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment or licensed veterans’ establishment shall provide the
village with a copy of the establishment’s current license from the state.
(Ord. 12-010, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed
veterans’ establishment which fails to pay the fee and provide a copy of the
state license as set forth in §
118.47 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $500.
(Ord. 88-014, passed 11-15-1988; Ord. 12-010, passed 6-18-2012)
CHAPTER 119: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Posting of notice regarding solicitation
   
119.03   Duty to comply with notices and requests to leave premises
   
119.04   Solicitation license required
   
119.05   Registration fee; investigation
   
119.06   Duty to carry, exhibit license
   
119.07   Revocation of license; appeals
   
119.08   Hours of solicitation and exempt activities
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police or other police officer designated by
the Chief of Police to carry out the Chief’s duties under this chapter.
   EXEMPT ACTIVITIES. The door-to-door seeking of donations to, or selling
goods on behalf of, not-for-profit corporations and organizations; door-to-door
dissemination of political, religious, charitable and other non-commercial
information; and door-to-door sale or solicitation of newspaper, magazines and
books.
   SOLICITATION. The entry on a private property without a prior appointment
with the occupant thereof for the purpose of selling, leasing or obtaining
orders for the sale or lease of goods or services.
   SOLICITOR. A person, firm or corporation engaged in solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 115.040) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000)
§ 119.02 POSTING OF NOTICE REGARDING SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to secure protection from solicitation as
provided by this chapter shall comply with the directions in this section.
   (B)   Notice of refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence or
place of business, may be given in the following manner:
      (1)   A weatherproof card, not less than three inches by four inches in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
or business and containing the following words: “NO SOLICITORS”.
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the card shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the card.
   (C)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor that the solicitor does not have an invitation to solicit at the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 115.042) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000)
§ 119.03 DUTY TO COMPLY WITH NOTICES AND REQUESTS TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   Any solicitor, whether or not licensed, and other than those engaged
in exempt activities, going onto the premises of any residence or business in
the village with a notice stating “NO SOLICITORS” shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor, whether or not licensed, and any person engaged in
exempt activities, who has gained entrance into any residence or business,
whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 115.043) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 SOLICITATION LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage or attempt to engage in
solicitation, other than exempt activities, in the village without having first
obtained a license from the Chief of Police. On an application form provided by
the Chief of Police, the solicitor shall provide his or her identification,
including name, address, phone number and driver’s license number; the name of
the solicitor’s employer, the nature of the products or services involved in
the solicitation, the name of the manufacturers of such products or of the
organization which the solicitor is representing and the proposed method of
operation in the village, and the transaction control number (TCN) obtained by
the applicant as set forth in §
119.05. No person shall make any false statement upon any application. The act
of signing an application shall constitute consent to a criminal background
check by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 115.044) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000; Ord. 15-021, passed 7-20-2015) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 REGISTRATION FEE; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Prior to submission of solicitor license application, each applicant
shall contact the Chief of Police to obtain the ORI number assigned to Village
President for non-criminal background checks.
   (B)   The Police Chief will give individuals requiring a background check
the ORI code for the Village Liquor Commission. Each individual shall be
responsible for scheduling and completing his or her digital fingerprint
submission and obtaining the transaction control number (TCN) issued by the
approved vendor documenting the submission to state and federal agencies, and
shall include the TCN on the solicitor license application. Each individual
shall be responsible for any charges incurred with respect to the LIVESCAN
procedures, and shall pay the approved LIVESCAN vendor directly; in no event
shall the village be responsible for LIVESCAN vendor charges.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application for license
within three business days after they obtain the results of the background
check.
   (D)   A license application shall be denied for the following reasons only:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a misdemeanor in the preceding
five years or a felony in the preceding ten years;
      (2)   The applicant or the business of which the applicant is an agent or
representative has been found guilty of or entered into a consent decree with
respect to, any violation of the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Trade Practices
Act; or
      (3)   A false statement has been made on the application.
   (E)   If the license application is granted, the Chief of Police shall issue
a solicitor’s license which shall state the name and address of the licensee,
the type of business engaged in by the licensee and the expiration date of the
license, which shall be six calendar months from the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 115.045) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000; Ord. 15-021, passed 7-20-2015)
§ 119.06 DUTY TO CARRY, EXHIBIT LICENSE.
   Each person shall, at all times while engaged in solicitation in the village
other than exempt activities, shall carry upon his or her person the
solicitor’s license issued pursuant to this chapter. The license shall be
exhibited by the licensee upon the request of any police officer or any person
solicited.
(Prior Code, § 115.046) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the Chief of
Police because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter, or of any
other ordinance of the village, or of any state or federal law. A person whose
license application is denied, or whose license is revoked may, within five
calendar days thereof, appeal the denial or revocation to the Village
President, who shall within ten days thereafter conduct an informal hearing
regarding the denial or revocation and either affirm or reverse the action of
the Chief of Police. A person whose license has been revoked, or whose
application has been denied, may not apply for another license for a period of
two years from the date of revocation or denial.
(Prior Code, § 115.047) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000)
§ 119.08 HOURS OF SOLICITATION AND EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall engage in solicitation or in exempt activities within the
village other than between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday and 12:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 115.049) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be liable to a fine of not less than $250, or more than $750.
Each provision violated, and each day a violation occurs, is a separate
offense.
   (B)   Corporations and other entities shall be separately liable for
violations of this chapter by their employees and agents. Each violation by
each employee and each agent shall be a separate offense for a corporation or
other entity employing such employee or agent.
(Prior Code, § 115.048) (Ord. 88-014, passed - -; Ord. 2000-24, passed 7-3-
2000)
CHAPTER 120: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
120.03   Public nuisance declared
   
120.04   Adult use cannabis activities allowed in industrial zones
 
   
120.99   Violations
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions. The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this
chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as
follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 19-042, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 120.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated
or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Riverton of any
of the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser; or
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor.
(Ord. 19-042, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 20-004, passed 3-26-2020)
§ 120.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 19-042, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 120.04 ADULT USE CANNABIS ACTIVITIES ALLOWED IN INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   Adult use cannabis cultivation centers, adult use craft growers and adult
use transporting organizations are allowed in areas of the village zoned I-
1 and I-2. See
Chapter 157 of this code.
(Ord. 19-042, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 20-004, passed 3-26-2020)
§ 120.99 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of § 130.999.
(Ord. 19-042, passed 12-16-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE; NUISANCES
      
131.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
132.   DRUGS
CHAPTER 130: PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances on Premises
   
130.001   Dangerous conditions on premises
   
130.002   Receptacles to be provided
   
130.003   Solid waste to be placed in receptacles
   
130.004   Disposal of garbage on other premises prohibited
   
130.005   Pools and watercourses
   
130.006   [Reserved]
   
130.007   Sewage
   
130.008   Electric fences
General Nuisances
   
130.020   [Reserved]
   
130.021   Use of refuse facility
   
130.022   Committing acts which endanger public health
   
130.023   Discharge of weapons
   
130.024   Climbing on tower or water tank
   
130.025   Rats
   
130.026   Legal days for Halloween
   
130.027   Riding of horses on sidewalks
Fires
   
130.055   Combustible and hazardous material
   
130.056   Fires
   
130.057   Authority at fires to be obeyed
   
130.058   Hindering firefighters or injuring fire apparatus
   
130.059   Fire hoses
Noise
   
130.070   Nuisances; unlawful
   
130.071   Prima facie violation
   
130.072   Investigation; arrest
   
130.073   Public nuisance declared
   
130.074   Nuisances and abatement
   
130.075   Penalty; mitigation
Nuisance Vegetation, Rubbish, and Pests
   
130.085   Definitions
   
130.086   Nuisances declared
   
130.087   Removal of nuisance vegetation, pests, and rubbish by owner and
occupants of land
   
130.088   Removal of nuisance vegetation, pests, and rubbish by village
   
130.089   Enforcement Officer
   
130.090   Legal and equitable remedies
   
130.091   Notice form
Impoundment of Motor Vehicles
   
130.095   General
   
130.096   When vehicles may be impounded and towed
   
130.097   Administrative fees
   
130.098   Notice to owner or lessee
   
130.099   Notice of hearing
   
130.100   Administrative hearings
Public Camping
   
130.110   Incorporation of recitals
   
130.111   Public camping as a nuisance
   
130.112   Regulating of public camping necessary to promote public health
   
130.113   Public camping not intended used of public property
   
130.114   Definitions
   
130.115   Public camping prohibited
   
130.116   Exceptions to prohibition
   
130.117   Removal of campsite
   
130.118   Disposition and release of personal property
   
130.119   Penalty; mitigation
 
   
130.999   Penalty
NUISANCES ON PREMISES
§ 130.001 DANGEROUS CONDITIONS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   It is illegal and declared to be a nuisance to have any building or
structure within the village which is unfit for human use.
   (B)   The designation of buildings as unfit for human use and the procedure
for the determination and placarding of such unfit buildings shall be carried
out in compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Any building which shall be found to have any of the following
defects shall be declared as unfit for human use and shall be so designated and
placarded by the designated village officer:
         (a)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants or the public;
         (b)   One which lacks lumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health and safety of the occupants or the public; and/
or
         (c)   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the general public.
      (2)   Any building determined as unfit for human use and so designated
and placarded by the designated village officer shall be vacated within a
reasonable time, as ordered by the designated village officer.
      (3)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been determined and
placarded as unfit for human use shall again be used for human use until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by, the
designated village officer. The village officer shall remove such placard only
when the defects upon which the determination and placarding action was based
have been eliminated, and after the dwelling or dwelling unit has been
inspected and been found to comply in all respects with the requirements of
this subchapter.
      (4)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any building
which has been determined as unfit for human use and placarded as such, except
as provided in division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
termination and placarding of a building as unfit for human use may request,
and be granted, a hearing on the matter before the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 130.001) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 RECEPTACLES TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The owner or occupant, lessee or contract for deed buyer, of any
single-family residence or duplex property shall provide, or cause to be
provided a receptacle or receptacles that are:
      (1)   Clean and in good repair;
      (2)   Galvanized metal or plastic with a close-fitting metal or plastic
cover;
      (3)   Water-tight;
      (4)   A capacity of not less than five, nor more than 35, gallons;
      (5)   With suitable handles for carrying; and
      (6)   Sufficient to contain the accumulation of waste material for a
period of at least seven days.
   (B)   The owner, title holder of record or contract for deed buyer of any
multiple-dwelling property with three or more dwelling units shall provide and
maintain clean and in good repair receptacles commonly known as dumpsters. The
dumpsters shall include lids which shall be kept closed at all times, except
when garbage is being deposited in the dumpsters or when the dumpster is being
emptied. Dumpster capacity shall be based on the number of dwelling units as
follows:
      (1)   One or more cubic yards for three to four dwelling units;
      (2)   One and one-half cubic yards or more for five to six dwelling
units;
      (3)   Two cubic yards or more for seven to eight dwelling units; and
      (4)   An additional one-half cubic yard shall be required for every
additional two dwelling units over eight units.
   (C)   An owner of a multiple-dwelling property with four or more dwelling
units may petition in writing to the Administrator of Public Health for an
exemption from the dumpster requirements set forth above. On receipt of the
petition the Administrator or a designee shall inspect the premises. If the
director of a designee decides that the receptacle facilities for the multiple-
dwelling residence are adequate and do not present a hazard to the public
health and safety, a permit to exempt the residence from the dumpster
requirement shall be issued. This permit may be revoked if, at any time, the
receptacle facilities become inadequate for the residence or present a hazard
to the public health and safety.
   (D)   In all cases, it shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner,
title holder or contract for deed buyer to provide the proper receptacles for
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 130.002) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988; Ord. 95-025, passed
10-16-1995)
§ 130.003 SOLID WASTE TO BE PLACED IN RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any premises to dispose,
at least once per calendar week, of any solid waste inclusive of, but not
limited to, garbage and rubbish in receptacles described in §
130.002 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.002.1) (Ord. 95-025, passed 10-16-1995)
§ 130.004 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE ON OTHER PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall dispose of any solid waste in any
receptacle not located on the premises where the waste was generated, without
the express written consent of the owner of the premises on which the waste is
deposited.
(Prior Code, § 130.002.2) (Ord. 95-025, passed 10-16-1995) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 POOLS AND WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit any pool of
water or watercourse on any property under his, her or its control to become
stagnant or polluted.
(Prior Code, § 130.003) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.006 [RESERVED].
§ 130.007 SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance for any person to maintain,
permit, cause, create or contribute to, in any way, an open drain, sewer or
cesspool, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit, create, cause or
contribute to any unsightly, nauseous or unhealthful condition by failing to
properly dispose of sewage or refuse, both within the limits of the village and
at any point within one mile of the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 130.005) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.008 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is declared unlawful and a nuisance for any person in the village to
erect, construct or maintain any electrically charged fence around any premises
that person may control.
(Prior Code, § 130.006) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 130.020 [RESERVED].
§ 130.021 USE OF REFUSE FACILITY.
   (A)   The village shall provide a dumpster at a location to be specified by
the Director of Public Works for the use of the citizens of the village, which
facility is referred to herein as the village refuse facility.
   (B)   Any individual resident of the village may deposit household refuse in
the village refuse facility. For purposes of this chapter, REFUSE refers to
general household waste of a non-putrescible nature, and which would be
permitted to be deposited in a municipal landfill. REFUSE does not include the
following types of waste:
      (1)   Food waste;
      (2)   Yard waste;
      (3)   Tires;
      (4)   Paint;
      (5)   Organic solvents;
      (6)   Appliances; and/or
      (7)   Dead animals.
   (C)   The hours of operation of the village refuse facility shall be 8:00
a.m. to noon on the second Saturday of each month and noon to 4:00 p.m. of the
second Wednesday of each month. Before depositing refuse, a person shall notify
the village office and shall obtain written authorization from the office to
deposit refuse.
   (D)   All refuse deposited in the village refuse facility shall be placed
inside the receptacle provided. No refuse shall be deposited on the ground in
the vicinity of the receptacle provided.
   (E)   Only residents of the village may use the village refuse facility. No
refuse from any business operation, and no refuse originating outside of the
village, shall be deposited at the village refuse facility.
(Prior Code, § 130.007.1) (Ord. 97-027, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 97-040, passed
12-1-1997; Ord. 2000-008, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 130.022 COMMITTING ACTS WHICH ENDANGER PUBLIC HEALTH.
   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance to commit or do any act
which endangers the public health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 130.008) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, FIREARM has the same definition as in the
Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card Act.
   (B)   No person shall discharge outdoors and within the corporate limits of
the village, any bow, arrow, crossbow, crossbow bolt, firearm or air gun,
spring-powered gun or similar weapon which, if discharged, is of sufficient
force or power to inflict bodily injury.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers acting in the line of duty;
      (2)   The use of firearms for defense of persons or property, as allowed
under state law;
      (3)   In an area zoned Agricultural under the Village Zoning Ordinance,
on a single zoning lot more than 50 acres in size, or on a parcel consisting of
two or more contiguous zoning lots under common ownership aggregating more than
50 acres in size:
         (a)   Hunting activities that are legal under state law and are
conducted according to state law and during times permitted by state law, and
pursuant to a lawfully issued state hunting permit, provided an owner of record
of the lot is personally present during and personally participates in the
hunting activities; or
         (b)   Target shooting, so long as:
            1.   An owner of record of the lot is personally present during and
participates personally in the target shooting activities;
            2.   All firearms are discharged into an earth backdrop at least
six feet in height above the target, located no more than 50 yards from the
point of discharge;
            3.   No firearm is discharged within 300 feet of an inhabited
building;
            4.   Firearms used are limited to pistols, shotguns, air guns and
rimfire rifles;
            5.   No firearms are discharged before 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00
p.m.; and
            6.   The Village Police Department is alerted at least 30 minutes
in advance of the shooting event.
(Prior Code, § 130.009) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988; Ord. 15-023, passed 8-
3-2015) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 CLIMBING ON TOWER OR WATER TANK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a person engaged in the conduct,
maintenance or repair of the village’s waterworks system, to crawl or climb or
go upon or along any part of the elevated steel tower and water tank of the
village, or to enter the wells or well houses.
(Prior Code, § 130.010) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.025 RATS.
   (A)   The presence of rats on any property, public or private, within the
village is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Owners will be given three days from the date of a written notice of
violation of this section to provide for the extermination of rats on premises.
If the owner fails to exterminate the rats after the three-day notice, the
village is authorized to enter onto the premises and take whatever measures are
necessary to exterminate and eliminate rats on the premises, with the cost
thereof to be assessed against the owner.
   (C)   The village shall have a lien against the property for costs imposed
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.012) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.026 LEGAL DAYS FOR HALLOWEEN.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to go about the village in carrying out
the annual Halloween custom of “trick or treat”, except on October 31 of each
year, or on such other date as shall be designated by the Village Board.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate division
(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 130.013) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.027 RIDING OF HORSES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is declared a nuisance and unlawful for any person to ride or allow to be
ridden upon the sidewalks of the village any horse, pony or other such animal.
(Prior Code, § 130.014) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
FIRES
§ 130.055 COMBUSTIBLE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard or to store or throw away any hazardous material
which could create a danger to the public health, regardless of whether such
storage is with the consent of the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 130.017) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance to build or light any
fire so close to any building or other structures as to endanger such building
or structure, or any street or sidewalk pavement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to build or light a fire which creates or causes
pollution of the air, noxious fumes or a nuisance by its fumes, smoke, or
spreading ash.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance to burn any hazardous
substances or to build or light a fire which emits any toxic or hazardous
emissions.
   (D)   It is unlawful to leave any open fire unattended.
   (E)   It is unlawful to build or light a fire, or let a fire burn or smolder
one hour or more after sundown or when wind conditions are such that the fire
presents a danger to the public safety.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the building of non-toxic, nor
reasonable, fires for outdoor recreation; provided that, such fires shall be
responsibly attended and shall be fully extinguished by 10:00 p.m.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance to build or light any
fire and burn household garbage which will cause noxious fumes.
   (H)   No burning may create a visibility hazard on paved streets or railroad
tracks.
   (I)   No burning is permitted on public streets, public alleyways, public
easements, or drainage ditches.
   (J)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which landscape
waste was generated.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to burn waste accumulated by commercial
activities or to bring yard waste onto a residential lot for burning.
   (L)   Nothing in this section shall preclude a resident of the village from
burning grass, leaves, or tree limbs on a residential lot in the village, so
long as the fire does not violate divisions (A) - (K) of this section, and so
long as the leaves, grass, or tree limbs were located on the residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 130.018) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988; Ord. 21-023, passed
12--2021) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 AUTHORITY AT FIRES TO BE OBEYED.
   Every person who shall be present at a fire shall be subject and obedient to
the orders of the Fire Chief and other officers of the Fire Department in
extinguishing the fire, and in removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 130.019) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 HINDERING FIREFIGHTERS OR INJURING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall willfully offer hindrance to any officer or firefighter in
the performance of his or her duty at a fire; nor shall any person willfully,
in any manner, destroy any engine or other apparatus belonging to the village.
(Prior Code, § 130.020) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.059 FIRE HOSES.
   No automobile, truck, railroad car or other vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department of the village, when laid down on any
street or alley by order of the Fire Chief or other proper officer, without the
consent of the Fire Chief or officer or member in charge of such hose.
(Prior Code, § 130.021) (Ord. 88-015, passed 11-15-1988) Penalty, see §
130.999
NOISE
§ 130.070 NUISANCES; UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   The noise activities enumerated below are hereby declared nuisances
and hence unlawful.
      (1)   Radio, television sets, phonographs, stereo systems and similar
devices use restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate or
permit to be played any radio receiving sets, musical instruments, television,
phonographs, stereo systems, sound amplifiers, loudspeakers, drums or other
machines or devices for the production or reproduction of sound in such a
manner as to cause to be made or continued any unnecessary noise in such a
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any reasonable person with
normal sensitivity residing within or bordering a residential area within the
village.
      (2)   Sound amplifiers and loud speakers. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use, operate or permit to be operated on private property or on the
public way within any residential or commercial district any sound amplifier
equipment of loud speakers designed to mechanically amplify the sound of the
human voice, musical instruments and other sounds between the hours of 10:00
p.m., Sunday through Thursday, and 8:00 a.m. of the next day or 12:00 a.m.,
Friday and Saturday, through 8:00 a.m. the same day.
      (3)   Animals. No person shall keep or maintain, or permit the keeping
of, upon any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such person, any animal
or fowl otherwise permitted to be kept which by any sound, cry or behavior
shall cause annoyance or discomfort or otherwise disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitivity within or bordering a
residential neighborhood within the village.
      (4)   Mufflers and motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate an automobile, truck, motorcycle, boat, motor vehicle or other power
device which is not equipped with an adequate muffler in constant operation and
properly maintained to prevent any unnecessary noise which shall cause
annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable person of normal sensitivity within or
bordering a residential neighborhood within the village.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any bell, chime
or other device for the production, or reproduction of the sound of bells or
chimes from any church, clock or school; nor shall the provisions of this
subchapter apply to any persons participating in a school band or in the parade
for which a permit has been issued or otherwise authorized by the village: nor
shall the provisions of this subchapter apply to organized activities of
private clubs on July 4 or Labor Day celebrations, nor to activities on public
property during the annual village street festival known as “Riverfest”.
(Prior Code, § 130.022) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981; Ord. 2008-029, passed 9-
2-2008; Ord. 24-12, passed 4-15-2024) Penalty, see § 130.075
§ 130.071 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATION.
   Any noise, plain and audible at either the property line or 25 feet in case
of a vehicle on a public right-of-way, shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.023) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981) Penalty, see §
130.075
§ 130.072 INVESTIGATION; ARREST.
   The Police Chief and/or other duly appointed police officers shall have the
authority to investigate possible violations of this subchapter either by
complaint of a citizen or upon their own independent investigation. Upon
investigation and determination that there is a violation of this subchapter,
the Police Chief and/or duly appointed police officer shall have full authority
to ensure compliance including the authority to arrest any violator.
(Prior Code, § 130.024) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981) Penalty, see §
130.075
§ 130.073 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   It is hereby declared that it shall be a public nuisance to violate any of
the provisions of §
130.070(A)(1) through (4) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.025) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981) Penalty, see §
130.075
§ 130.074 NUISANCES AND ABATEMENT.
   The village and its representatives are empowered to institute legal
proceedings, including injunctive relief, for the abatement or prosecution of
persons found to violate this subchapter. Every such nuisance, when a
conviction therefor is had, may, by order of the Court before which the
conviction is had, be abated by the Police Chief or other proper officer at the
expense of the defendant.
(Prior Code, § 130.026) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981)
§ 130.075 PENALTY; MITIGATION.
   Notwithstanding any provision in §
130.999 to the contrary:
   (A)   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this subchapter
(Noise) within a rolling 12-month period shall be $25.
   (B)   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this subchapter
(Noise) within a rolling 12-month period shall be $50.
   (C)   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this subchapter
(Noise) within a rolling 12-month period shall be $75.
   (D)   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this subchapter
(Noise) within a rolling 12-month period shall be $100.
   (E)   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this subchapter
(Noise) within a rolling 12-month period shall be $250.
   (F)   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
subchapter (Noise) within a rolling 12-month period may be a monetary penalty
of $750 or incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
(Ord. 24-25, passed 9-16-2024)
NUISANCE VEGETATION, RUBBISH, AND PESTS
§ 130.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE VEGETATION. Includes:
      (1)   Trees, shrubs, bushes, WEEDS, or plants permitted to grow on
premises adjacent to any street, alley, or other public way, in a manner as to
obstruct the view and endanger traffic conditions;
      (2)   WEEDS and dead or dying trees or bushes, stumps, and roots, on land
within the village
      (3)   Elm trees infected with Dutch elm disease or ash trees infected
with the emerald ash borer.
      (4)   Grasses, weeds or other vegetation which impairs the use of paved
sidewalks in the village.
   PESTS. Undesirable arthropods (including certain insects, spiders, mites,
ticks, and related organisms), wood infesting organisms, rats, mice, and other
obnoxious undesirable animals, but does not include a feral cat, a "companion
animal" as that term is defined in the Humane Care for Animals Act (510 ILCS
70), "animals" as that term is defined in the Illinois Diseased Animals Act
(510 ILCS 50), or animals protected by the Wildlife Code (520 ILCS 5).
   RUBBISH. Any unsightly material, waste products, refuse, debris, trash, or
waste lumber deposited, left, piled or scattered that may become a breeding
place for insects, rodents, or vermin, or that may give off unpleasant odors or
create a health or fire hazard where located.
   WEEDS. An annual or perennial herbaceous plant of volunteer growth, not
cultivated or useful for human food or enjoyment, and shall include, but not be
limited to the following: jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistles of all kinds,
cockleburr, barberry (tall, common or other horticultural varieties), poison
ivy, yellow dock, Indian mallow, sweet clover, wild mustard (including black
mustard and yellow mustard), May weed, lambs' quarters, pig weed, beggar ticks,
wild lettuce, shepherds purse, smart weed, sow-thistle, tumble-weed, milk weed,
dandelions, and the like; any plant that, when in blossom, gives off an
unpleasant or obnoxious order or pollen irritating to human tissue, and any
plant growth that may conceal rubbish, debris or filthy deposits or constitute
a fire hazard when dry; grass that is more than 12 inches in height; random
growth or volunteer growth of bushes or brush that may conceal rubbish, debris,
or filthy deposits or constitute a fire hazard when dry; any plant that causes
or adds its influence in bringing on hay fever; other similar or noxious plant,
and all plants fitting within the term WEEDS as used in the Illinois Municipal
Code. (Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018; Ord. 22-16, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 130.086 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   Nuisance vegetation, rubbish, weeds, and pests as defined in §
130.085 are hereby declared to be nuisances.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018; Ord. 22-16, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 130.087 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE VEGETATION, PESTS, AND RUBBISH BY OWNER AND
OCCUPANTS OF LAND.
   (A)   Failure to obey notice; removal by village; costs. In all cases where
the owner, occupant, or lessee of real estate on which there is rubbish, pests,
or nuisance vegetation, shall fail to cut or remove nuisance vegetation; fail
to remove rubbish; or fail to prevent or exterminate pests after ten calendar
days' notice in writing mailed to him or her by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at his or her last known address ascertainable by the village,
notifying him or her to cut or remove nuisance vegetation; remove rubbish; or
to prevent or exterminate pests; then the Enforcement Officer may cause the
nuisance vegetation to be cut, trimmed, or removed; the rubbish removed; or
pests exterminated or removed; and the entire expense thereof shall be
chargeable to both the person who owns and the one who controls such real
estate, to be collected by suit or otherwise, in addition to the penalty
prescribed in §
130.999. The ten days referenced above shall begin from date of such mailing.
In the alternative to mailing the notice, the notice may be hand-delivered by a
Village Police Officer, and the 10 days will begin to run from the date of hand
delivery.
   (B)   Failure to pay; penalty. Any person liable hereunder for payment of
the foregoing expense to the village shall pay the full amount of said charge
within ten days after date of mailing statement to owner, occupant, or lessee
at his last known address, or said charge shall be delinquent. Failure to pay
the charge within the time specified shall thereafter subject the violator to a
penalty of 10% of the unpaid amount of said delinquent charge, or $10,
whichever is greater, which shall be collected as part of said delinquent
charge.
   (C)   Removal. Nuisance vegetation, when cut down, shall be removed from the
lot or disposed of in such manner as not to create a nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 130.088 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE VEGETATION, PESTS, AND RUBBISH BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   If the person served with notice fails or refuses to remedy the
violation, the violation may be removed or remedied by private contractors
hired by the village, or, at the discretion of the Enforcement Officer after
consultation with the Mayor, by village personnel.
   (B)   Charge. The village hereby establishes a charge, payable to the
village, of $100 per hour or any portion thereof, for the use of village
employees, equipment, and fuel for removal of rubbish, pests, and nuisance
vegetation. The corporate authorities of the village hereby find that said
charge is fair and reasonable to recompense the village for its expenses. In
the event the Enforcement Officer contracts with a third party for the removal
of rubbish or nuisance vegetation, the charge to the owner, occupant, or lessee
shall be the village's out-of-pocket expenses, plus a $25 service charge for
administering the contract, which the corporate authorities find to be fair and
reasonable to recompense the village.
   (C)   Lien. In the event that the nuisance vegetation, pest, or rubbish
removal expense remains unpaid for more than ten days after said service is
performed and expense incurred by the village, said unpaid charge shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate, and the Village Clerk shall file a
notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Sangamon County, and
mail a copy of the lien to the last ascertainable owner of record. Upon payment
of all costs, expenses, charges, and penalties, the lien created under this
section shall be released by the village, which release shall be filed of
record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien, pursuant to law, the
expense of said filing to be paid by the violator.
   (D)   Suit. In addition to any other action authorized by this chapter or by
the Illinois Municipal Code, the village may, to the extent permitted by law,
bring suit to foreclose the lien and to sue the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real estate or their agent, in a civil action to recover the money due for
services rendered, plus all expenses and reasonable attorney’s fees to be fixed
by the court. Any such judgment shall be enforced in accordance with law. In
addition to the charges due, the village is entitled to collect the costs of
filing notice of lien, foreclosing said lien, and litigation costs, together
with all office and legal expense incurred in connection with the collection of
the amount due.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 130.089 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be by a municipal official known as the
Enforcement Officer, who shall be a person so designated by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 130.090 LEGAL AND EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   In addition to the penalties and liens prescribed herein, the village may
avail itself of all legal and equitable remedies permitted by the Illinois
Municipal Code and other statutes of the state to abate a nuisance, including,
but not limited to, seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 130.091 NOTICE FORM.
   Notice to a violator may, but is not required to be, in the form of
Attachment A to Ordinance 18-005, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 18-005, passed 4-16-2018)
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 130.095 GENERAL.
   The village hereby establishes the circumstances under which motor vehicles
may be impounded by the Police Department. Also, pursuant to § 11-208.7 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, the village herby institutes procedures for the
release of properly impounded vehicles and provides for the imposition of a
reasonable administrative fee related to its administrative and processing
costs associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention of an offender,
or the removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.096 WHEN VEHICLES MAY BE IMPOUNDED AND TOWED.
   The Police Department may impound vehicles and cause vehicles to be towed
where the impoundment is subject to a warrant or in the following instances,
all of which are either specifically authorized by statute, or are hereby
declared a public nuisance pursuant to the village's power to define, prevent
and abate public nuisances pursuant to § 11-60-2 of the Illinois Municipal
Code.
   (A)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012 [720 ILCS 5/36-1];
   (B)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code [625 ILCS 5/11-501];
   (C)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act [720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.];
   (D)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act [720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.];
   (E)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 [720 ILCS 5/24-1, 720 ILCS
5/24-1.5 or 720 ILCS 5/24-3.1];
   (F)   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that
vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is
for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing;
   (G)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act;
   (H)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code [625 ILCS 5/6-101], if the
period of expiration is greater than one year;
   (I)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license or permit due to a person's age;
   (J)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated § 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
[625 ILCS 5/6-101, 625 ILCS 5/6-303 or 625 ILCS 5/11-501];
   (K)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A Criminal Code
of 2012 [720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et seq.];
   (L)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 2012 [720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.];
   (M)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of § 11-503 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code [625 ILCS 5/11-503]:
      (1)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
      (2)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession; or
   (N)   Where authorized pursuant to the village's ordinances pertaining to
abandoned and inoperable vehicles.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.097 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   An administrative fee in the amount of $200 is hereby imposed for the
release of vehicles impounded pursuant to §
130.096. The following shall apply to such administrative fees:
   (A)   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
   (B)   The fees shall be in addition to: (i) any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and (ii) any towing
or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
   (C)   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the Village Treasurer at
the village utility office.
   (D)   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to
the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
   (E)   The administrative fee imposed by the village is in addition to any
fees charged for the towing and storage of an impounded vehicle.
   (F)   The administrative fee shall be waived by the village upon verifiable
proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded.
   (G)   All administrative fees collected pursuant to this section shall be
placed in a special fund within the General Fund known as the "Police Equipment
Fund" and shall be appropriated and spent only for equipment for the Police
Department.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.098 NOTICE TO OWNER OR LESSEE.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility authorized by the village.
   (B)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative
hearing.
   (C)   The village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder either: (i) pays the
administrative fee in full with all towing and storage charges; or (ii) posts
with the village a bond equal to the administrative fee and all towing and
storage charges.
   (D)   The person paying the administrative fee may waive in writing the
right to administrative hearing at the time the administrative fee is paid.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.099 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Unless waived in writing at the time the administrative towing fee is paid,
the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of record
shall be provided with a notice of hearing. The notice shall:
   (A)   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record either
by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's address as
registered with the Secretary of State;
   (B)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle is
impounded by the village; and
   (C)   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing. An
initial hearing shall be convened no later than 45 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.100 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is impounded pursuant to this subchapter, the
registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner shall have
the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to § 11-208.3(b)(4) of the Motor Vehicle
Code.
   (B)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer, who
shall be attorney other than the Village Attorney and licensed to practice law
in Illinois for a minimum of three years.
   (C)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment.
   (D)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the Hearing
Officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the vehicle
shall be forfeited to the village.
   (E)   All final decisions of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
   (F)   Unless the Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the vehicle
impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or lienholder
of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage charges are
paid.
   (G)   If the Hearing Officer determines that in impounding the vehicle, the
village exceeded its authority, the village will be responsible to the
registered owner or lessee for the cost of storage and reasonable attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 17-028, passed 10-16-2017)
PUBLIC CAMPING
§ 130.110 INCORPORATION OF RECITALS.
   The recitals contained in Ord. 24-22 shall be and are hereby incorporated as
findings of fact as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.111 PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE.
   Public camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the village for the reasons identified above.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
130.119
§ 130.112 REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH.
   In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
President and Board of Trustees of the village hereby declare it necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to
regulate public camping, as that term is defined herein, within the village’s
corporate limits.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.113 PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the village
in §§
131.065 through
131.072, and
131.999, or in any subsequent ordinance, the village hereby declares that none
of its property is permitted nor intended to be used for public camping, as the
term is defined herein.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.114 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEDDING. A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
   CAMPSITE. Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
   EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY. Items which would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this chapter, but:
      (1)   Which has no apparent utility or monetary value;
      (2)   Personal property which is unsanitary to store or otherwise
maintain;
      (3)   Any weapon possessed illegally;
      (4)   Drug paraphernalia;
      (5)   Items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be evidence
of a crime;
      (6)   Items which the person cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful
authority to possess; and
      (7)   Any items of food which can reasonably be expected to spoil or
otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt personal
property.
   PUBLIC CAMPING. To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act
of remaining in or at, a campsite.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.115 PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   (B)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   (C)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the village.
   (D)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in the vehicle.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the village for the purpose
of public camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the
President and Board of Trustees of the village, between the hours of midnight
and 6:00 a.m., shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
130.119
§ 130.116 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in
public camping when done (i) n a manner specifically authorized by this code;
(ii) after a formal declaration of the village in emergency circumstances; or
(iii) upon resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the village,
the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if
the President and Board of Trustees of the village finds such exemption to be
in the public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the
President and Board of Trustees of the village, and with such conditions
imposed as the President and Board of Trustees of the village deems necessary.
Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the applicant
provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the
village for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the village as a
result of the activities of the applicant. Any findings by the President and
Board of Trustees of the village shall specify the exact dates and location
covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.117 REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE.
   Removal of a campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   Prior to removing a campsite, the village shall post a notice, 24-
hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the campsite is
deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in divisions (A)(1) through (A)
(4) below. If such immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the
immediate removal of such campsite should be adequately documented by the
appropriate person(s).
      (1)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain access
to a property;
      (2)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      (3)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
      (4)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the village and its residents.
   (B)   Upon any action pursuant to division (A) above, the person causing
such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the village, of the location of the
campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so the
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
   (C)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period has
passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal property thereon, shall be
removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the village.
   (D)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal property
from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes exempt
personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that the
exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
130.119
§ 130.118 DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the village, for a minimum of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably
available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
   (B)   All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the village.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.119 PENALTY; MITIGATION.
   Notwithstanding any provision in §
130.999 to the contrary:
   (A)   (1)   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this subchapter
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $75.
      (2)   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this subchapter
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $150.
      (3)   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this subchapter
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $350.
      (4)   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this subchapter
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $500.
      (5)   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this subchapter
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $750.
      (6)   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
subchapter within a rolling 24-month period may be a monetary penalty of $750
or incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant
to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
   (B)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) above, and if consented to by the village, the
penalty assessed to any person found in violation of this subchapter may be
that the person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and
other public facilities of the village for an amount of time that, if the
person found to have violated this subchapter was being paid the minimum wage
under Illinois law, the amount paid for that person’s labors would have been
equal to the monetary penalty assessed under this section.
   (C)   The village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this section, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of the person
for a period of time that conforms with 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
   (D)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   A separate offense of this subchapter shall be deemed committed on
each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (F)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this section, any
person found in violation of this subchapter may be immediately removed from
the premises where the campsite is located.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance for any person, firm
or corporation to permit or maintain the existence of any nuisance on any
property under his, her or its control. The village police officer is
authorized to enter upon any property to abate such nuisance existing in the
village, whether such nuisance is specifically recognized by ordinance or not.
The village is further authorized to bring suit before the Circuit Court for
abatement for any nuisance existing in the village and for damages caused by
such a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 130.998)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, whoever violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250, nor more than
$500, for each offense, unless specified otherwise. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.999)
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.021, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$200, or more than $500; and, in addition, shall be liable to reimburse the
village for any landfill or hauling fees caused by the violation.
(Prior Code, § 130.007.1)
   (D)   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
130.026 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.013)
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
130.070 through
130.074 shall be fined not less than $5, or more than $500, for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 130.027)
      (2)   The village shall have the authority to adopt regulations
establishing fines and providing for their collection in uncontested cases, per
§§
130.070 through
130.074, where the violator provides his or her written consent.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
130.085 through
130.091 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than
$100, nor to exceed $750 for each violation. Each day during which a violation
continues beyond the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate
punishable offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.028) (Ord. 81-007, passed 6-2-1981; Ord. 88-015, passed 11-
15-1988; Ord. 95-025, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 97-027, passed 10-6-1997; Ord.
97-040, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 2000-008, passed 3-6-2000; Ord. 18-005, passed
4-16-2018)
CHAPTER 131: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
131.001   Closing of parks
   
131.002   Games and sports
   
131.003   Refundable deposit assessed for use of Center Park restroom
facilities for private events
   
131.004   Rules and signs
   
131.005   Firearms and fireworks
   
131.006   Throwing stones
   
131.007   Hindering employees
   
131.008   Offering articles for sale
   
131.009   Public meetings
   
131.010   Improper speech and conduct
   
131.011   Begging
   
131.012   Use of playground equipment by adults
   
131.013   Fires
   
131.014   Park ponds
   
131.015   Fishing
   
131.016   Drunkenness; intoxicating liquors
   
131.017   Drugs
   
131.018   Dumping articles
   
131.019   Advertisements
   
131.020   Gambling
   
131.021   Protection of birds and animals
   
131.022   Bringing plants, shrubs or trees prohibited
   
131.023   Damage to park property
   
131.024   Glass containers prohibited
Traffic Provisions
   
131.035   Vehicles restricted to drives
   
131.036   Toy vehicles
   
131.037   Bicycles in the parks
   
131.038   Bicycles endangering persons or property
   
131.039   Speed of bicycles
   
131.040   Riding on the right
   
131.041   Riding on bicycles
   
131.042   Lights required at night
   
131.043   Riding animals
   
131.044   Speed of vehicles
   
131.045   Motor vehicle noises
   
131.046   Speed restrictions in and about parking lots
   
131.047   Clinging to vehicles
   
131.048   Drivers exercise due care
   
131.049   Blind or hearing impaired persons
   
131.050   Officer authorized to remove vehicles
   
131.051   Parking
   
131.052   Unattended motor vehicles
   
131.053   All-terrain vehicles prohibited in public parks
Camping in Wheeland Park
   
131.065   Camping permitted
   
131.066   Camping sites to be designated
   
131.067   Permit applications
   
131.068   Issuance or denial of permit
   
131.069   Fees
   
131.070   Rules and regulations
   
131.071   Revocation of permit
   
131.072   Limitation of liability
 
   
131.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.001 CLOSING OF PARKS.
   (A)   The parks will be closed to the public from 10:00 p.m., local time,
each evening until 4:00 a.m., the following morning, except as to:
      (1)   Parties at any of the park pavilions, under the supervision and
control of the duly licensed concessionaire of the pavilion;
      (2)   Use of any of the facilities of the parks for approved purposes for
such later time for which written permission has been obtained by the parties
using said facilities from the Park Committee or the Board of Trustees of the
village; and/or
      (3)   Use of any of the park roadways in a manner otherwise lawful.
   (B)   All persons, except employees of the village whose duties require
their presence, or persons coming within the exception abovementioned, shall
leave the park promptly at 10:00 p.m., and shall not enter or reenter the park
between such hour and 4:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (C)   In case of emergency, or where in the judgement of the Board of
Trustees or the Park Committee, the public interest demands it, portions of the
park may be closed to the public, and all persons therein be excluded therefrom
until permission is granted to return.
(Prior Code, § 131.101) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.002 GAMES AND SPORTS.
   No person shall engage in any game, sport, amusement or exercise in or on
the park or other property of the village, except in or on such portion as may
be designated for that purpose by the Board of Trustees of the village or the
Park Committee, and then only such rules as may be designated by the Board of
Trustees or the Park Committee. Nor shall any person walk, loiter, be, remain
or conduct himself upon any portion of the park or other property of the
village, designated for any particular sport, game, amusement or exercise, in
such manner as to interfere with the use of such portion of the park or
property of the village by persons who are using the same for the particular
sport, game, amusement or exercise for which it has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 131.102) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003 REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT ASSESSED FOR USE OF CENTER PARK RESTROOM
FACILITIES FOR PRIVATE EVENTS.
   (A)   Persons reserving the Center Park restroom facilities for private
events shall be responsible for cleanliness of the restrooms and for any
damages to the facilities occurring during the private events.
   (B)   A refundable cleaning and damage deposit of $75 shall be assessed for
use of Center Park restroom facilities for reserved events. The party reserving
Center Park facilities and requiring use of Center Park restroom facilities
shall pay the deposit fee at the village office.
   (C)   Keys to the restroom facilities shall be picked up the day of the
event or as directed by the village office. The restroom facilities shall be
locked upon conclusion of the event. Keys shall be turned in to village office
on the first business day following the event. The Superintendent of Public
Works will cause the restrooms to be inspected for cleanliness and damage. If
the restrooms are clean and there is no damage to the restroom facilities, the
deposit shall be refunded.
   (D)   Should there be damage to the facilities, or should the facilities
require cleaning, the deposit shall be applied to the cost thereof and any
difference shall be refunded to the reservation party. If the damage to the
facilities or the cost of cleaning exceed the deposit, the reserving party
shall be liable to the village for the difference.
(Prior Code, § 131.122) (Ord. 2009-028, passed 10-19-2009)
§ 131.004 RULES AND SIGNS.
   No person shall violate or disobey any rule or regulation governing the
park, roadways or property of the park, adopted by the Board of Trustees, or
laid down by the officers in charge thereof and posted in some conspicuous
place in or upon such park, roadway or other property, or of which such persons
shall have actual notice; and no person shall violate or disobey directions
contained in any notice or sign relating to the use or government of the park,
publicly posted or displayed by the authority of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 131.201) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.005 FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
   No person, except authorized village personnel, shall carry or discharge
firearms, or discharge or set off any rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib or other
fireworks or things containing any substance of an explosive nature in the
park.
(Prior Code, § 131.202) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.006 THROWING STONES.
   No person shall throw or cast any stones or other missiles within the park.
(Prior Code, § 131.203) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.007 HINDERING EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall interfere with, or in any manner hinder any employee of the
village while engaged in constructing, repairing or caring for any park
property.
(Prior Code, § 131.204) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.008 OFFERING ARTICLES FOR SALE.
   No person shall offer or exchange for sale any article or thing, or do any
hawking, peddling or soliciting or buy or offer to buy any article or thing, or
take up any collection or solicit or receive contributions of money or anything
of value in the park system, except when authorized to do so by permit from or
contract with the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 131.205) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.009 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   No person shall call or hold any public meeting or give any concert or
public entertainment of any kind in the park without the express consent of the
Board of Trustees or the Park Committee.
(Prior Code, § 131.206) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.010 IMPROPER SPEECH AND CONDUCT.
   No person shall use any abusive, threatening, insulting, indecent, profane
or obscene language, or language calculated to occasion a breach of the peace,
nor be guilty of any indecent act or behavior in the park.
(Prior Code, § 131.207) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.011 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms in the park.
(Prior Code, § 131.208) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.012 USE OF PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT BY ADULTS.
   No adult person shall, in any manner, use any of the playground apparatus or
devices meant exclusively for the use of the children.
(Prior Code, § 131.209) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.013 FIRES.
   No person shall light or make use of any fire in the park, except as
authorized by the Village Board of Trustees or the Park Committee.
(Prior Code, § 131.210) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.014 PARK PONDS.
   No person shall bathe or swim in the park lake or pond.
(Prior Code, § 131.211) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.015 FISHING.
   Fishing is permitted in ponds in village parks, except in areas which are
marked as “no fishing” areas. Persons fishing in village park ponds shall have
a valid state fishing license or state exemption therefrom. State laws
pertaining to fishing shall be observed by all persons fishing in village
parks. Fishing in village ponds shall be only with hook and line; all other
methods of fishing, including, but not limited to, net fishing, spear fishing,
bow fishing and catching fish by hand, are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 131.212) (Ord. 2011-012, passed 6-6-2011) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.016 DRUNKENNESS; INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   No intoxicated person shall enter, be or remain in the park, nor shall any
person bring within, sell, give away or drink any intoxicating liquors in the
park, except as approved and licensed by the President of the Village Board of
Trustees pursuant to the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 131.301) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.017 DRUGS.
   No person under the influence of drugs shall enter, be or remain in the
park, nor shall any person bring with, sell, give away or use any drugs in the
park.
(Prior Code, § 131.302) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.018 DUMPING ARTICLES.
   No person shall deposit, dump, throw or place any rubbish in or upon any
part of the park system. Paper, garbage or refuse matter shall not be so
deposited, except in receptacles provided for that purpose. Use of receptacles
for refuse collected outside the park area is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 131.303) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.019 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall display any placard or advertisement of any kind in the park
system, nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw or place any handbill,
pamphlet, circular, advertisement or notice of any kind, nor post, stencil or
otherwise affix any notice, or bills, advertisement or other papers, upon any
structure or thing in or about the park premises.
(Prior Code, § 131.304) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.020 GAMBLING.
   No person shall play games of chance or use any gambling device in the park,
except in conjunction with state law and as authorized by the Board of Trustees
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 131.305) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.021 PROTECTION OF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall trap, catch, wound or kill, or treat cruelly or
attempt to trap, catch, wound or kill any bird or animal, or molest or rob any
nest of any bird or animal in the park system.
   (B)   Catching of fish with hook and line in authorized fishing areas is not
prohibited under this section.
(Prior Code, § 131.306) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.022 BRINGING PLANTS, SHRUBS OR TREES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring into or upon the park system any tree, shrub or plant
or any newly plucked branch or portion of a tree, shrub or plant unless
authorized by written permission from the Board of Trustees of the Park
Committee.
(Prior Code, § 131.307) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.023 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall cut, break, climb on or, in any way, injure or deface any
tree, shrub, plant, turf or any of the buildings, fences, bridges, signs, lamps
or posts or other structure or property within the park.
(Prior Code, § 131.308) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.024 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring any glass bottle, glass jar or other glass container
into any public park in the village, nor possess, use or dispose of any glass
bottle, glass jar or other glass container in any public park in the village.
(Prior Code, § 131.309) (Ord. 2007-019, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
131.999
TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 131.035 VEHICLES RESTRICTED TO DRIVES.
   No person shall drive or ride any automobile, or other vehicle anywhere in
the park, except in the drives, or allow them to stand, except in parking
places especially provided for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 131.103) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.036 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled, skateboard
or other toy vehicle to go upon any roadway, except for the purpose of crossing
a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 131.104) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.037 BICYCLES IN THE PARKS.
   Every person riding a bicycle within the confines of the park district shall
be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle under these ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 131.105) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.038 BICYCLES ENDANGERING PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   No bicycle shall be ridden at any time, any place or in any manner so as to
be dangerous to any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 131.106) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.039 SPEED OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle at greater speed than is reasonably
prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   At no time may the operator of a bicycle exceed the posted speed
limits within the parks.
(Prior Code, § 131.107) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.040 RIDING ON THE RIGHT.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near the
right-hand side of the roadway as is practical, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 131.108) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.041 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except that, an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a back pack or sling or
in a special seat securely attached to the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 131.109) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.042 LIGHTS REQUIRED AT NIGHT.
   No bicycle shall be ridden upon any drive or roadway within the park between
the hours of sunset to sunrise without displaying at least one lighted lamp
exhibiting a white light or a light of a yellow or amber tint, visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of the bicycle and with at least one lighted
lamp exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(Prior Code, § 131.110) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.043 RIDING ANIMALS.
   No person, except law enforcement personnel, shall ride any horse, pony or
other riding animal except in the drives or the bridle paths established by the
park district.
(Prior Code, § 131.111) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.044 SPEED OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall engage in any race along any of the roadway of the park
district, nor shall any person ride or drive faster than at a speed of 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 131.112) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.045 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISES.
   No person shall disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or of the
public by unnecessarily producing loud or unusual noises by means of a motor
vehicle, whether such noises be produced by the friction of tires or wheels
against pavement or other surface, by the unnecessary racing of engines on
motor vehicles, by the unnecessary honking of a horn or horns on motor
vehicles, by the lack of a muffler or a defective muffler or by the playing of
the car radio or sound system, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 131.113) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.046 SPEED RESTRICTIONS IN AND ABOUT PARKING LOTS.
   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of ten mph in a parking
lot serving a village park.
(Prior Code, § 131.114) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.047 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any roadway within the park district
riding a bicycle, motorcycle, motor scooter, motor driven cycles or any toy
vehicles to cling to, attach himself or herself or his or her vehicle to any
moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(Prior Code, § 131.115) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.048 DRIVERS EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this subchapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care.
(Prior Code, § 131.116) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.049 BLIND OR HEARING IMPAIRED PERSONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind or hearing
impaired pedestrian carrying a visibly white cane or accompanied by a guide
dog.
(Prior Code, § 131.117) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.050 OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any
provision of this subchapter, that officer is hereby authorized to move such
vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
the same, to a position in compliance with the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found in the
park when a report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of the owner, or the person or persons in charge of such
vehicle are unable to provide for its custody or removal.
(Prior Code, § 131.118) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990)
§ 131.051 PARKING.
   Cars may be parked within the parking lots or parking areas provided or
designated and along the roadway within the park, except in the following
cases:
   (A)   When the sign prohibits stopping or indicates that the parking is
restricted;
   (B)   When a curb bordering the roadway is painted yellow;
   (C)   Within an intersection or within 20 feet of an intersection;
   (D)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic; and
   (E)   In front of a public or private driveway.
(Prior Code, § 131.119) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.052 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon and when
standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or
side of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 131.120) (Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.053 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   All-terrain vehicles (other than licensed four-wheel drive automobiles),
including, but not limited to, dirt bikes, three-wheelers and four-wheelers,
are prohibited in any public park in the village. No person shall possess,
drive, transport, park, load or unload such a vehicle, within any public park
in the village.
(Prior Code, § 131.121) (Ord. 97-004, passed 2-17-1997) Penalty, see §
131.999
CAMPING IN WHEELAND PARK
§ 131.065 CAMPING PERMITTED.
   Camping in the village park known as Wheeland Park shall be permitted,
subject to the rules and regulations contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 131A.001) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999)
§ 131.066 CAMPING SITES TO BE DESIGNATED.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall designate an area within Wheeland
Park for camping, and shall mark and number not less than two, nor more than
ten, camp sites in the park for use by the public.
(Prior Code, § 131A.002) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999)
§ 131.067 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Any person desiring to camp in Wheeland Park shall apply for a permit on a
form which will be devised by the Chief of Police, and which will contain, as a
minimum, the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, phone number and driver’s license number of the
permittee, and the number of persons to be camping with the permittee;
   (B)   The period of time for which the permit is sought;
   (C)   The make, model and license number of any vehicles, including
trailers, and the license number of any boat, which the permittee will have at
the campsite;
   (D)   A statement that the permittee has read the rules and regulations
pertaining to camping at Wheeland Park, and a commitment to abide by those
rules and regulations; and
   (E)   A statement releasing the village from all liability for injury to
persons or property arising in whole or in part from conditions in Wheeland
Park or from persons entering Wheeland Park.
(Prior Code, § 131A.003) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999)
§ 131.068 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt and review of the permit application and payment of
the permit fee, the Chief of Police shall issue the camping permit.
      (2)   The permit shall be valid only for the number of days specified
thereon, and only for the numbered campsite specified thereon.
   (B)   Except when reserved in advance by a scouting or other youth group,
all permits shall be issued on a first come, first served basis.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may deny a permit to any person who has violated
the rules and regulations of Wheeland Park in the past. In case of such denial,
the applicant may appeal to the Village President, who will hold an informal
hearing as promptly as possible and sustain or deny the decision of the Chief
of Police.
   (D)   When the Chief of Police is not available, the police officer on duty
shall act in his or her stead.
   (E)   A permit shall be valid for up to seven days. No more than four
consecutive permits shall be granted; nor shall any person be granted permits
totaling more than 14 days for all campsites during any 30-day period.
(Prior Code, § 131A.004) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999; Ord. 2011-018, passed
7-5-2011)
§ 131.069 FEES.
   The fee for camping in Wheeland Park shall be payable in advance and, when
paid, shall be non-refundable and shall be $10 per day for campsites which are
not equipped with electric service and $20 per day for campsites which are
equipped with electric service.
(Prior Code, § 131A.005) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999; Ord. 99-025, passed 7-
6-1999; Ord. 01-019, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 15-008, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 131.070 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern camping in Wheeland Park.
   (A)   Preference for issuing camping permits will be given to local Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts and other youth organizations. Responsible supervision
shall be provided by the applicant for the camping permit.
   (B)   The preservation of the natural setting of the area and the wildlife
habitat must be maintained. The campsite must be left in a state of cleanliness
upon leaving the area. Sanitation must be adequately provided for.
   (C)   Destruction of wildlife, tree cutting and removal of vegetation is
prohibited.
   (D)   Campsites are available only by assignment and are subject to the
following limitations.
      (1)   Only one wheeled camping vehicle (trailer, camper or other
recreational vehicle) may occupy a campsite at a time; in addition to the
wheeled camping vehicle, there may be no more than one tent occupying the
campsite.
      (2)   If there are no wheeled camping vehicles occupying a campsite, no
more than two tents may occupy the campsite at a time.
      (3)   No more than four adults may occupy a campsite at a time.
      (4)   Homemade camper vehicles and mobile homes are prohibited in all
campsites except for those vehicles that have been certified, approved and
licensed by the Illinois Secretary of State as “recreational vehicles” and have
valid RV plates properly displayed on the vehicles.
      (5)   No wheeled camping vehicle shall exceed the following lengths:
         (a)   In campsites Nos. 1 and 2: 40 feet; and
         (b)   In all other campsites: 34 feet.
   (E)   No fixtures shall be erected on any campsite. FIXTURE includes, but is
not limited to, patios, decks, fences, awnings, oil drum stands, clotheslines,
television antennas and the like.
   (F)   All trash and refuse shall be placed in plastic bags, and then in
trash receptacles provided by the village.
   (G)   No waste water, sewage or other pollutants may be dumped into or onto
the ground or Sangamon River.
   (H)   No sanitation waste hose or pipe shall extend from the trailer into
the ground at any time.
   (I)   No gravel pit and dry well connections are allowed.
   (J)   Cleanliness and sanitation shall be the sole responsibility of the
camper and any violation of these rules shall authorize the Chief of Police to
revoke the camping permit and privileges without refund.
   (K)   The discharge of firearms and fireworks in the park is prohibited.
   (L)   Visitors to the campground shall abide by Ch. 90 of this code of
ordinances concerning animal control.
   (M)   All visitors to the campground must leave their cars in designated
parking areas. Visitors shall leave camping areas by 10:00 p.m.
   (N)   The camping season is from March 1 to November 30, weather permitting,
unless changed by the Village Board. No camping will be allowed, except during
the camping season.
   (O)   Electrical and water hookups are not available at all campsites.
   (P)   Fires shall be confined to fireplaces, grills and other facilities
designed for and designated by the village. Fires shall be attended at all
times by a responsible person over 13 years of age.
   (Q)   No person may rent more than two campsites per day, except for a youth
organization such as the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts sponsoring a group camp out.
   (R)   The Village President, the Superintendent of Public Works and the
Chief of Police may order the closure of Wheeland Park, and the cessation of
camping activities therein, whenever appropriate, in their sole discretion, in
view of present or forecasted weather conditions, present or forecasted high
water, flooding or other conditions of the Sangamon River, or any emergency.
(Prior Code, § 131A.006) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999; Ord. 99-025, passed 7-
6-1999; Ord. 2000-026, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2004-027, passed 10-4-2004; Ord.
2011-018, passed 7-5-2011) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.071 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any camping permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police for violation of
any rule or regulation contained in §
131.070 of this chapter, or for violation of any state law or village
ordinance. Whenever a permit is revoked, the permittee, and the persons listed
on the permit application as accompanying the permittee, shall have one hour to
vacate the campsite.
(Prior Code, § 131A.007) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999)
§ 131.072 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   All persons camping in or visiting campers in Wheeland Park do so subject to
the condition that the village shall not be liable for any injury whatsoever to
the person or property of any camper or any person visiting any camper, from
any cause whatsoever. The village assumes no responsibility for the campers and
visitors of persons in Wheeland Park or for their possessions.
(Prior Code, § 131A.008) (Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999)
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any clause or provision of any section of §§
131.001 through
131.024 and
131.035 through
131.053, unless otherwise stated, shall be fined not less than $200, nor more
than $750, for each offense, upon conviction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 131.401)
   (C)   Any person guilty of violating §
131.051 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100, per incident.
(Prior Code, § 131.119)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
131.065 through
131.072 shall be liable, on conviction thereof, for a fine of not less than
$250, nor more than $750, for each offense. Each day a violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 131A.009)
(Ord. 90-002, passed 5-15-1990; Ord. 99-011, passed 4-28-1999; Ord. 2011-012,
passed 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 132: DRUGS
Section
Drug Paraphernalia
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
132.03   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
132.04   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia
   
132.05   Nuisance declared
   
132.06   Severability
 
   
132.99   Penalty
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, the term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use,
or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq., and
720 ILCS 570/100, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body; and
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Water pipes;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips; meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs; and
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a Court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of any owner or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq., and 720 ILCS 570/100;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq., and 720 ILCS 570/100; the innocence of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct violation of 720 ILCS 600/
1 et seq., and 720 ILCS 570/100, shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Prior Code, § 132.001) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001)
§ 132.02 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of 560 ILCS 550/1 et seq., and
720 ILCS 570/100.
(Prior Code, § 132.002) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, or possess with intent to deliver,
drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of 560 ILCS 550/1 et
seq., and 720 ILCS 570/100.
(Prior Code, § 132.003) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 ADVERTISEMENT OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 132.004) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any store, place or premises from which or in which any item of drug
paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold or delivered at retail
is declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to or in lieu of an action for
a penalty pursuant to this subchapter, the corporate authorities may bring an
action to enjoin the continuation of such a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 132.006) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are severable; should a Court find that a
portion of this subchapter is invalid or unenforceable, it shall sever such
portion and enforce the remainder of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 132.007) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
132.01 through
132.06 shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than $250, and
not more than $750, for the first offense, and a fine of $750 for each
subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 132.005) (Ord. 02-012, passed 4-15-2001)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
153.   FENCES
      
154.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
      
155.   SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING
      
156.   FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Attaching handbills, advertisements and the like on utility poles
   
150.02   Numbers on buildings required
   
150.03   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
150.04   Comprehensive Plan
§ 150.01 ATTACHING HANDBILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS AND THE LIKE ON UTILITY POLES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall paste, paint, print, nail or attach, or
cause to be pasted, painted, printed, nailed or attached, any handbill, sign,
poster, advertisement or instrument of any kind, on any telegraph, telephone or
electric light pole without the consent in writing of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.001) (Ord. 73, passed 5-8-1950)
§ 150.02 NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS REQUIRED.
   All owners or occupants of buildings now erected, or which may be erected,
within the village are required to number their buildings in conformity with
practices heretofore or hereafter established by the village, and the
regulations of the Zoning Administrator in pursuance thereof. No owner or
occupant of any building now erected, or hereafter to be erected, shall fail to
number such building within 30 days of such building being erected, and no
person shall number any building otherwise than in conformity with the
provisions hereof, and the regulations of the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 94.002) (Ord. 97-005, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 150.03 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to establish and assign all
building and lot numbers on the streets of the village. Lot and building
numbers in existence as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
section shall continue in effect and, if currently platted lots lack numbers,
the Zoning Administrator shall assign numbers in conformity with the system in
effect as of the date of said ordinance. Lots platted hereafter shall have
their numbers established as soon as practicable after approval of any final
plat. For lots platted after the date of said ordinance, the Zoning
Administrator shall allow as far as practicable one number for each 20 feet of
ground. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain records and maps of all lot and
building numbers assigned by him or her. The Zoning Administrator shall, upon
request, furnish to each owner or occupant of a building and lot with the
necessary information as to the number belonging to the building and lot, and
the quantity of the number and the size of the number and the placing thereon
on the building. The Zoning Administrator may order the owner or occupant of
any building lacking a number to place a number thereon. Any such order shall
be in writing and shall be mailed by certified mail to the owner and to the
occupant, shall designate the number assigned to the building, and shall
designate a time, not less than 30 days after mailing, by which the number
shall be placed on the building. In addition, the Zoning Administrator shall
serve as the Village Plats Officer as set forth in
Chapter 155 of this code.
(Prior Code, §94.003) (Ord. 97-005, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 15-027, passed 10-5-
2015)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 157
§ 150.04 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   That certain document entitled "Village of Riverton Comprehensive Plan
2014-50" is hereby adopted as the Comprehensive Plan of the Village of
Riverton. The Regional Plan Commission shall reprint the Comprehensive Plan,
deleting all references to the word "draft" and shall provide an appropriate
number of copies of the Comprehensive Plan to the Clerk.
   (B)   Within ten days of receipt of the final Comprehensive Plan, the Clerk
shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a notice substantially in the form
attached to Ordinance 14-021. The Comprehensive Plan shall become effective ten
days after the date of filing notice of adoption of the Comprehensive Plan with
the County Recorder of Deeds. All previous comprehensive plans are superseded.
(Ord. 14-021, passed 11-17-2014)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Adoption of International Building Code
   
151.02   Adoption of One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
   
151.03   Exceptions to adoption by reference
   
151.04   Maintenance of records by Clerk
   
151.05   Creation of office to enforce Code
   
151.06   Appeals from decisions of the Building Code Administrator
   
151.07   Inspection and enforcement
   
151.08   Building and demolition permits
   
151.09   Inspections and certificates of occupancy
   
151.10   Stop work orders
   
151.11   Resolution of conflicts among codes
   
151.12   Grandfather clause
   
151.13   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
Unsafe, Dangerous Buildings
   
151.25   Definition of “dangerous building”
   
151.26   Nuisance declared
   
151.27   Abatement procedures
   
151.28   Dangerous buildings prohibited; occupancy of dangerous buildings
prohibited
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
    Pursuant to § 1-3-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the 2018 edition of the
International Building Codes, as published by the International Code Council
(“the IBC”), is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the village. The IBC
shall control all matters concerning the construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and maintenance of all
buildings and structures, other than one- and two-family dwellings, and shall
apply to existing or proposed building and structures, except if such matters
are otherwise provided for in this subchapter or in other ordinances or
statutes or rules or regulations of the village.
(Prior Code, § 156.001) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2011-003, passed
3-21-2011; Ord. 23-13, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE.
    Pursuant to § 1-3-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the 2018 edition of the
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings as published
by the International Code Council (the “IRC”), is hereby adopted by reference
as the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code of the village. The IRC shall control
all matters concerning construction, prefabrication, alteration, repair, use,
occupancy and maintenance of detached one- or two-family dwellings and one-
family townhouses not more than three stories in height, and their accessory
structures.
(Prior Code, § 156.002) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 23-13, passed 8-
21-2023)
§ 151.03 EXCEPTIONS TO ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Certain sections of the codes adopted by reference in this subchapter
shall be of no force and effect, as follows:
      (1)   Any provision of the codes pertaining to penalties for violation
thereof;
      (2)   Any section of the codes pertaining to construction inspection and
inspection fees;
      (3)   Any section of the codes pertaining to appeals; and
      (4)   Any provision of any of the above codes, other than the Illinois
Plumbing Code, relating to plumbing.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the State of Illinois
Plumbing Code shall control all matters relating to plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 156.003) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.04 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall place on file three copies of each of the IBC and
IRC and shall keep such copies in the office of the Clerk and shall make such
codes available for public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 156.004) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.05 CREATION OF OFFICE TO ENFORCE CODE.
   There is hereby created the Office of Building Code Administrator. The
Building Code Administrator shall have the powers and duties of the code
official as defined in the IBC and IRC, and may have other duties prescribed by
the Village Board not related to his or her duties as Building Code
Administrator. The Building Code Administrator shall be an officer of the
village appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees for an indefinite term not to exceed the term of office of
the Village President who appointed him or her.
(Prior Code, § 156.005) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.06 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this section shall govern appeals of the
decisions of the Building Code Administrator.
   (B)   Application for appeal. The Village Zoning Board of Appeals shall
function as the Board of Appeals for appeals of the Building Code
Administrator. Any person shall have the right to appeal to the Zoning Board of
Appeals from a decision of the Building Code Administrator refusing to grant a
modification to the provisions of the IBC or IRC covering the manner of
construction or materials to be used in the erection, alteration or repair of a
building or structure, or electrical, plumbing, mechanical or other equipment
therein, or the refusal to grant a building permit or a certificate of use and
occupancy, or the improper issuance of a stop work order. An application for
appeal shall be based upon the claim that the true intent of the IBC and IRC or
the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, that
the provisions of the IBC and IRC do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction can be used.
   (C)   Procedure of the Board. The Board shall adopt and make available to
the public through the secretary, procedures under which a hearing shall be
conducted. The procedure shall not require compliance with strict rules of
evidence, but shall mandate that only relevant information be received. The
procedure shall require that no Board member shall be qualified to hear any
case in which he or she has a financial interest or in which he or she is
related by blood or marriage to the appellant.
   (D)   Postponed hearing. When a quorum is not present to hear an appeal,
either the appellant or the appellant’s representative shall have the right to
request postponement of the hearing.
   (E)   Board decision. The Board may modify or reverse the decision of the
Building Code Administrator only by a concurring vote of a majority of its
members holding office. The decision of the Board shall be in writing.
Certified copies of the decision shall be furnished to the appellant and the
Code Administrator. The Code Administrator shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision.
   (F)   Administrative review. Decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be reviewable by the Circuit Court of the Seventh Judicial Circuit in the
county, in accordance with provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure
relating to administrative review.
(Prior Code, § 156.006) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.07 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No structure in the village shall be constructed, enlarged,
altered or repaired or removed or demolished without a permit being issued by
the Building Code Administrator. Upon application and approval, the Building
Code Administrator shall issue a permit. All work performed pursuant to any
permit issued hereunder shall meet the requirements for workmanship, methods
and materials as set forth in the IBC or IRC and all requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance and other applicable ordinances of the village.
      (2)   The permit shall be posted on the premises at the time the work is
commenced.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, a building permit shall not be required for
the following:
      (1)   Cases, counters and partitions not over five feet high;
      (2)   Painting, papering, window replacement without removing frames and
similar finish work;
      (3)   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall when projecting out
not more than 54 inches; and/or
      (4)   Alterations and remodeling, the cost of which is less than $1,000
and does not constitute or affect corridors, exitways and load-bearing members
of those structures.
(Prior Code, § 156.007) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2011-003, passed
3-21-2011)
§ 151.08 BUILDING AND DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits.
      (1)   Generally. The Building Code Administrator shall prescribe a form
for an application for a building permit. The form shall require, as a minimum,
the name and address of the person seeking the building permit, the purpose of
the construction, the present zoning classification of the property and a
sketch map showing the dimensions of the lot, the location, square footage and
setbacks of any existing structures on the lot and the square footage, location
and setbacks of the proposed structures, if any, to be constructed on the lot.
The form provided by the Building Code Administrator shall contain the
following legend, to be initialed as applicable in each case by the applicant:
 
_______ THE APPLICANT CERTIFIES THAT THE STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS APPLICATION
APPLIES HAS BEEN DESIGNED AND SHALL BE BUILT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, 2003 EDITION, AND THE CURRENT EDITION OF THE
ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE. ALL SUBCONTRACTORS AND THE OWNER HAVE BEEN OR WILL BE
NOTIFIED OF THIS CERTIFICATION.
_______ THE APPLICANT CERTIFIES THAT THE STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS APPLICATION
APPLIES HAS BEEN DESIGNED AND SHALL BE BUILT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS, 2003 EDITION,
AND THE CURRENT EDITION OF THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE. ALL SUBCONTRACTORS AND
THE OWNER HAVE BEEN OR WILL BE NOTIFIED OF THIS CERTIFICATION.
 
      (2)   Fees. Each application for building permit shall be accompanied by
a fee, as follows:
Type of Construction Fee
Type of Construction                                                   Fee
Addition of a deck, porch or patio or a shed with 65 square feet or    $25
greater floor area
Alteration of a commercial, industrial or other structure other than a $150
residential structure
Alteration of a residential structure                                  $25
Construction of a fence or swimming pool                               $25
New commercial, industrial or other structure other than a residential $250
structure
New residential structure                                              $100
Satellite dish                                                         $10
 
   (B)   Demolition permits.
      (1)   Generally. The Building Code Administrator shall prescribe a form
for an application for a demolition permit signed by the applicant and owner of
record containing, as a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   Date of application;
         (b)   Project address;
         (c)   Tax ID no. of parcel;
         (d)   Name, address, phone and e-mail of owner of record of property,
and of applicant, if different from owner;
         (e)   Current use of building;
         (f)   Dimensions of building, number of stories and number of dwelling
units;
         (g)   Frame type (masonry, wood, steel, etc.) ;
         (h)   Disposal site for demolition materials:
            1.   Whether there are there hazardous materials known to be on
this site;
            2.   Name, address, phone, e-mail and fax of demolition;
            3.   Anticipated start and finish dates.
         (i)   Written proof of:
            1.   Disconnection of services from utility companies having
jurisdiction;
            2.   Notification to Illinois EPA of proposed demolition;
            3.   Abatement plans and abatement contract for known hazardous
materials on site;
            4.   Demolition contract;
            5.   Plans, if applicable, for pedestrian protection during
demolition.
      (2)   Fee. The fee for a demolition permit shall be $10.
(Prior Code, §156.008) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2011-003, passed
3-21-2011; Ord. 18-030, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 151.09 INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Normally, the Building Code Administrator shall not inspect work,
other than conducting a site or stakeout inspection. However, the Building Code
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, conduct any other inspection
authorized by the IBC or IRC with or without notice to the permit holder. It is
the responsibility of the permit holder to schedule the site or stakeout
inspection with the Building Code Administrator.
   (B)   A landowner may request a certificate of occupancy. Two types of
certificates of occupancy are hereby established:
      (1)   A zoning certificate of occupancy, pursuant to which the Building
Inspector certifies that the use or proposed use of land or a structure is in
accordance with the regulations which pertain to the zoning district in which
the land is located; and
      (2)   A zoning and building certificate of occupancy, pursuant to which,
in addition to the certification in division (B)(1) above, the Building
Inspector certifies that a structure is in accordance with the village’s
Building Code and other applicable codes.
   (C)   Any landowner may apply for a zoning certificate of occupancy. The
application shall be on a form specified by the Building Inspector and shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   A $25 fee payable to the village;
      (2)   A sworn statement of the landowner stating the use or proposed use
of the land; and
      (3)   A drawing to scale of the land and all structures and uses thereon,
including data relating to setbacks from the property lines.
   (D)   (1)   Any landowner may apply for a zoning and building certificate of
occupancy. The application shall be on a form specified by the Building
Inspector and shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   A $50 fee payable to the village;
         (b)   A sworn statement of the landowner stating the use or proposed
use of the land;
         (c)   A drawing to scale of the land and all structures and uses
thereon, including data relating to setbacks from the property lines; and
         (d)   1.   In the case of a one- or two-family dwelling, a certificate
from a person licensed pursuant to the Home Inspector License Act, 225 ILCS
441/1-1 et seq., that such person has determined after inspection that all
structures thereon are built in accordance with the village’s Building Code and
all applicable Fire, Plumbing and Electrical Codes; or
            2.   In the case of a multi-family or commercial building, a
certificate from a licensed architect that the architect has determined after a
review of the plans and an inspection that all structures thereon are designed
and built in accordance with the village’s Building Code and all applicable
Fire, Plumbing and Electrical Codes.
      (2)   The Building Inspector may rely on the certifications of the
licensed home inspector or architect without further investigation.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall examine the application and, if the
application meets the requirements of this section and the use or proposed use
of land or a structure is in accordance with the regulations which pertain to
the zoning district in which the land is located, shall issue the certificate
to the applicant within three working days of receipt of the application.
   (F)   Denials of an application for a certificate of occupancy may be
appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (G)   No certificate of occupancy is required as a legal prerequisite for
any person to own or occupy land or operate any use thereon.
(Prior Code, § 156.009) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2009-002, passed
2-16-2009)
§ 151.10 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Upon notice from the Building Code Administrator that work on any building
or structure or any construction work is being prosecuted contract to the
provisions of the IBC or IRC or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work
shall be immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing, shall be
given to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the
person doing the work; it shall state the conditions under which work will be
permitted to resume. Any person who shall continue any work in or about the
structure after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be deemed in violation of this section. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during on or which the violation occurs or
continues. In addition to this penalty, the village may utilize other statutory
or common law remedies, including, but not limited to, injunctive, preliminary
injunctive and temporary restraining order relief, deemed appropriate by a
Court of law.
(Prior Code, § 156.011) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTS AMONG CODES.
   In the event of conflicts among the codes adopted pursuant to this
subchapter, or among such codes and this subchapter, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall prevail over the provisions of
any code.
   (B)   The Illinois Plumbing Code shall prevail over the provisions of any
other code.
   (C)   The IRC shall prevail over the IBC with respect to one- and two-family
dwellings.
   (D)   In the event of any other conflict, the most stringent requirement
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 156.012) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.12 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   No existing building or structure not in compliance with any of the codes
adopted herein as of the effective date of this subchapter or of any amendment
hereto, and no building, the foundation of which has been laid as of the
effective date of this subchapter or any amendment hereto which is completed
within six months of the effective date of this subchapter or the amendment,
shall be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter by reason of continuation
of the non-complying condition; nor is any owner required to bring any such
structure into compliance with any code adopted hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 156.013) (Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 151.13 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of 2012 International Property Maintenance Code. Pursuant to
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1, the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code as published
by the International Code Council, is adopted as the Property Maintenance Code
of the Village of Riverton. The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code
shall control matters concerning conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure a
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use; and
the demolition of such existing structures as are provided therein; except if
such matters are otherwise provided for in this section or in other ordinances
or statutes or rules or regulations of the Village of Riverton, Illinois.
   (B)   Maintenance of records by Clerk. The Village Clerk shall place on file
three copies of each of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code and
shall keep such copies in the office of the Clerk and shall make such Codes
available for public use, inspection and examination.
   (C)   Exceptions to adoption by reference. The following sections of the
2012 International Property Maintenance Code are not adopted by reference and
shall be of no force and effect:
      (1)   Any provision pertaining to penalties;
      (2)   Any provision pertaining to permit fees.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
or the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a penalty not less than $200 per day nor more than $750 per day. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition to this penalty, the village may
utilize other statutory or common law remedies deemed appropriate by a court of
law, including but not limited to injunctive relief, preliminary injunctive
relief, and obtaining a temporary restraining order. In the event a condition
existing on real property violates both the 2012 International Property
Maintenance Code and some other village ordinance pertaining to dangerous
buildings, abandoned buildings, abandoned or inoperable vehicles, or nuisances,
the village may proceed under either ordinance.
(Ord. 13-022, passed 11-18-2013)
UNSAFE, DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.25 DEFINITION OF “DANGEROUS BUILDING”.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because its construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause or condition which causes or aids or may cause or aid
in the spread of disease, or the harboring and spread of rodents, insects or
other vermin, or garbage, debris and other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy
substances or materials, or which causes or may cause injury to the health of
the occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or fall of any part of such
structure; and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and is frequented or may be frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who
are not lawful occupants of such structure or poses an attractive nuisance to
children.
(Prior Code, § 93.001) (Ord. 98-016, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 151.26 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any dangerous building in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
Pursuant to § 11-31-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the President and the
Board of Trustees of the village are empowered to demolish, repair or enclose
or cause the demolition, repair or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings
or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and
may remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris and other hazardous, noxious
or unhealthy substances or materials from those buildings.
(Prior Code, § 93.002) (Ord. 98-016, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 151.27 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Whenever the President and Board of Trustees of the village is of
the opinion, based upon a viewing of the premises by the President, a Trustee
or any official of the village charged with enforcement of building or zoning
and an oral or written report to the President and Board of Trustees, that any
building or structure in the village is a dangerous building, they may by
resolution direct the Village Clerk to cause written notice to be served upon
the owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail,
registered mail or personal service.
      (2)   Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the
owner or owners of the building, including the lien holders of record, is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
      (3)   Notice by certified or regular mail pursuant to this section shall
be accomplished if the village receives a return receipt from the addressee or
if the certified or regular mailing is returned “unclaimed” or “refused”.
      (4)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be
in a dangerous condition, that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it and that
the condition must be remedied at once.
      (5)   Such notice may be, but is not required to be, in the following
form:
 
To                                                      (owner-occupant of the premises) of the premises known and described as
                                                                                           .
 
You are hereby notified that, pursuant to Ordinance No.                , “An Ordinance Relating to Dangerous Buildings”, your building located at the above-described premises has
been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after inspection by                                           .
 
 
The causes for this decision are  (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition)  .
 
You have 15 days from the date of service of this notice (which, in the case
that this notice was mailed by certified or registered mail, is the date the
notice was mailed) to remedy this condition or demolish the building
immediately or the village will proceed to take legal action to do so.
 
You may also be subject to a fine of not less than $250 per day nor more than
$750 per day for each day the building has been or shall remain in dangerous
condition pursuant to village ordinance. In addition, the village may further
avail itself of all of the remedies set forth in § 11-31-1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
 
 
   (B)   Unknown address of owner. If the owner of the premises concerned is
unknown or if his or her address is unknown, service of any notice provided for
in this subchapter may be made by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by
publishing one time a copy thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
   (C)   Remedy of condition.
      (1)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith
within 15 days from the time when the notice is served upon such person by
personal service, certified mail or posting and publication, the Zoning
Administrator or other officer of the village directed by the President and
Board of Trustees, may proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
dangerous building by filing a lawsuit in the Circuit Court seeking any or all
remedies available under § 11-31-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, including,
but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   For an order authorizing action to be taken by the village with
respect to a building, including, but not limited to, action to demolish,
repair or enclose the building or to remove garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials from the building, if
the owner or owners of the building, including the lienholders of record, after
at least 15 days’ written notice by mail so to do, have failed to put the
building in a safe condition or to demolish it;
         (b)   A fine as set forth in §
151.99 of this chapter;
         (c)   An order requiring the owner or owners of record to demolish,
repair or enclose the building or to remove garbage, debris and other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials from the building; and
         (d)   A judgement against the owner or other person causing the
dangerous condition for the payment of the village’s costs and reasonable
attorneys’ fees in connection with the village’s enforcement of this
subchapter.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to an action brought pursuant to this
subchapter that the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed, although the
Court may order the defendant to have the building boarded up or otherwise
enclosed.
   (D)   Additional remedies. In addition to the actions authorized by this
subchapter, the village officials may proceed under any and all of the
provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, including § 11-31-1, which
authorizes imposition of a lien when the village is compelled to take action;
and § 11-31-2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with
building, fire, health and safety standards.
(Prior Code, § 93.003) (Ord. 98-016, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 151.28 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED; OCCUPANCY OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village and it shall be unlawful for a record owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
a dangerous condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 93.004) (Ord. 98-016, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.12 of this chapter, the IRC or the IBC, shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a penalty not less than $75 per day, nor more than $750, per day. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. In addition to this penalty, the village may utilize other
statutory or common law remedies deemed appropriate by a Court of law,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, preliminary injunctive relief
and obtaining a temporary restraining order.
      (2)   The Building Code Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
compromise minor violations of §§
151.01 through
151.12 of this chapter where the offender:
         (a)   Promptly corrects the condition constituting the violation;
         (b)   Pays a fine of $25; and
         (c)   Pays the cost of a reinspection fee as set forth herein.
      (3)   Any structure, or any part thereof, constructed or maintained not
in accordance with §§
151.01 through
151.12 of this chapter is hereby declared a nuisance, subject to abatement in
accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 156.010)
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
151.28 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, in addition to the imposition of
any of the other remedies contained in §§
151.25 through
151.28 of this chapter, be punished by imposition of a fine of not less than
$50, and not more than $500, per offense. Every day a building shall be
maintained or permitted to exist in a dangerous condition shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.004)
(Ord. 98-016, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2007-016, passed 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 152: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Permit requirements
   
152.03   Drawings, plans and permits
   
152.04   Location restrictions
   
152.05   Swimming pool fences
   
152.06   Electrical requirements
   
152.07   Safety precautions
   
152.08   Inspection requirements
   
152.09   Non-conforming structures
   
152.10   Filling of pools
   
152.11   Nuisance declared
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE POOL. A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having
a depth of less than two feet, intended for the purpose of immersion or partial
immersion therein of human beings.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by an
individual primarily for the sole use of his or her household and guests and
not for the purpose of profit or in connection with any business operated for
profit.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by individuals for the use
of more than one household, or maintained by a club for the use of its members,
or maintained by a business for profit, or maintained by a school, park
district, municipality or other public not-for-profit organizations.
   SWIMMING POOL. A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water having
a depth at any point of more than two feet, intended for the purpose of
immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and including all
appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or above the
ground inside or outside of a building.
(Prior Code, § 114.001) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any swimming pool unless permits shall have been
obtained from the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any public swimming pool within the village unless
any required permits shall first have also been obtained from the state.
   (C)   Juvenile pools shall require no permit.
(Prior Code, § 114.002) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.03 DRAWINGS, PLANS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Each application for a swimming pool permit shall be accompanied by a
permit fee of $5 and by a set of plans or drawings which shall be drawn to
scale.
   (B)   All distances and dimensions shall be accurately figured and drawings
shall be explicit and complete showing the lot lines, distance from the
residence(s), location of the fence and pool walk.
   (C)   The pool, walk and fence construction, electrical system and all
relevant appurtenances pertaining to the pool, sufficient to show whether the
swimming pool will comply with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.003) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.04 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted in R-1 and R-
2 residential zones only. No portion of the pool shall be located less than
four feet from a side or rear lot line. Pools and appurtenant equipment shall
not be permitted in any front yard.
   (B)   Public swimming pools shall be permitted in residential and business
zones; except that, any public swimming pool operated for the purpose of profit
or operated in connection with a business operated for profit shall not be
operated in a single-family residential zone. No portion of a public swimming
pool or its appurtenant equipment shall be located less than 15 feet from a
side or rear lot line. Public swimming pools shall not be located in a front
yard.
(Prior Code, § 114.004)
§ 152.05 SWIMMING POOL FENCES.
   (A)   A swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a fence erected along
the periphery of the swimming pool and any immediately adjacent walk, deck or
terrace area appurtenant to the swimming pool. The fence shall be at least 48
inches in height and shall be designed and constructed to render the swimming
pool inaccessible to children under six years of age. All fence openings shall
be equipped with gates and all gates shall be equipped with self-closing
devices and shall have latches.
   (B)   (1)   A swimming pool shall be exempt from the foregoing fence
requirement if:
         (a)   It is above ground level in whole or in part, and has a walkway
or deck area greater than 30 inches in height with integral guards or rails,
the top of which is greater than 48 inches above ground level, and a means of
egress which can be removed and locked while the swimming pool is not in use;
or
         (b)   It is above ground level in whole or in part, and the top of the
pool is at least 48 inches above ground level in all places.
      (2)   Persons with such exempt pools ensure that ladders and other means
of ingress or egress are kept removed or locked when the swimming pools are not
in use.
(Prior Code, § 114.005) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.06 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Where electrical conductors are adjacent to a swimming pool or juvenile
pool, they shall have proper insulation and shall be ground fault protected. No
overhead electrical wires shall be permitted within 15 feet a swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 114.006) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.07 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   Swimming pools and juvenile pools shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 114.007) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.08 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Zoning Administrator may, upon completion of construction of a pool or
upon receipt of information that a pool is non-conforming and with prior notice
to the owner, inspect a swimming pool to determine whether it is in compliance
with provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.008) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.09 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Swimming pools erected prior to the effective date hereof, which do not meet
the fence, electrical or safety requirements of this chapter shall be made to
conform to such requirements within 90 days of the effective date hereof. No
swimming pool existing as of the effective date hereof shall be rendered
illegal solely because of its violation of location or setback provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.009) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.10 FILLING OF POOLS.
   No person shall fill any pool without giving at least 36 hours’ advance
notice to the Superintendent of Public Works; this provision will not apply,
however, to replacement of water lost by evaporation. Persons failing to give
such notice, in addition to any other penalties, shall not be entitled to any
waiver of a sewage charge in accordance with Water Department rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 114.010) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 152.11 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any swimming pool constructed or maintained in violation of this chapter is
hereby declared a nuisance. In addition to any other remedy available to it,
the village may bring an appropriate action in a Court of proper jurisdiction
for an injunction or other order compelling the violator to abate any such
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 114.012) (Ord. 98-036, passed 8-17-1998)
CHAPTER 153: FENCES
Section
   
153.01   Requirements in residential districts
   
153.02   Requirements in commercial and industrial districts
   
153.03   Permits
   
153.04   Variances
   
153.05   Recreational purpose fences
   
153.06   Swimming pool fences
   
153.07   Violation of chapter prohibited
   
153.08   Nuisance declared
   
153.09   Grandfather clause; grace period for certain fences
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 REQUIREMENTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   All fences within residential zoning districts shall comply with the
following specifications.
   (A)   A fence located in a required front yard shall be at least 50% open,
and no fence in a required front yard may exceed four feet in height measured
from ground level. A clearance of three inches shall be allowed for
installation purposes and shall not count in determining the height of a fence.
No privacy fence may be located in the front of a residence on the same zoning
lot.
   (B)   A privacy fence located on the side street of a corner lot shall be
restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
   (C)   No fence may exceed eight feet in height above ground level.
   (D)   No fence may be constructed from barbed wire, metal spikes or any
other sharp pointed materials. All chain link fences shall be installed with
the knuckle portion of the fence up and with the barb portion of the fence at
or near the ground. No fence may be electrified.
   (E)   No fence may be located so as to hinder access to any easement or
right-of-way for a public or village-owned utility, including, but not limited
to, gas, water, sewer, telephone, electric and cable television.
   (F)   A through lot shall be considered as having two front yards for fence
purposes. One front yard is the yard in front of the residence located on the
through lot. The other front yard shall be the area lying between the street
located to the rear of the residence on the through lot, and a line which is
the average setback from such street for all residences facing such street for
the block. The rear yard of a through lot shall be all the area between the two
front yards.
   (G)   Support poles on privacy fences shall be hidden from view from
adjoining lots. This provision, however, does not apply to fences surrounding
or adjoining athletic fields, where support poles may present a safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 155.001) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 2010-018, passed
6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 REQUIREMENTS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   All fences within commercial and industrial zoning districts shall comply
with the following specifications.
   (A)   A fence erected in a required front yard shall be at least 50% open.
   (B)   A privacy fence erected on the side street of a corner lot shall be
restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
   (C)   No fence may exceed a height of eight feet above ground level. A
clearance of three inches shall be allowed for installation purposes and shall
not count in determining the height of a fence.
   (D)   (1)   No fence may be constructed with barbed wire, metal spikes or
any other sharp pointed materials unless the sharp pointed materials are
erected at least six feet above ground level, but not higher than eight feet
above ground level. All chain link fences shall be installed with the barbed
portion of a fence at or near the ground unless it is installed at least six
feet above ground level.
      (2)   No fence may be electrified.
   (E)   No fence may be so located as to hinder access to any easement or
right-of-way for a public or village-owned utility, including, but not limited
to, gas, water, sewer, telephone, electric and cable television.
   (F)   Support poles on privacy fences shall be hidden from view from
adjoining lots. This provision, however, does not apply to fences surrounding
or adjoining athletic fields, where support poles may present a safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 155.002) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 2010-018, passed
6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No fence may be erected unless a fence permit is obtained from the
office of the Zoning Administrator at a cost of $10. The application for permit
shall be signed by all owners of record of the property on which the fence is
to be erected. No work shall start until the permit has been obtained. A
contractor or owner starting work prior to applying for and receiving said
permit shall be subject to a $25 fine. This fine may be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, any additional fines or penalties that are provided for in this
chapter.
   (B)   A fence permit is null and void after one year from the date of
issuance if the fence authorized by the permit has not been completed.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may order work to stop on the construction of
any fence as to which no permit has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 155.003) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.04 VARIANCES.
   Application and procedures for a variance of any of the provision of this
chapter shall be made in the same manner as provided in §
157.128 of this code of ordinances, as amended, for variances. The filing fee
for an application or a petition to vary any of the above provisions is $100.
(Prior Code, § 155.004) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.05 RECREATIONAL PURPOSE FENCES.
   (A)   Fences erected for purposes of providing fencing around sports or
recreation facilities or areas as listed below, shall not be subject to the
height restrictions specified elsewhere in this chapter; provided that, such
facility or area is not located within 20 feet of a zoning lot corner formed by
the intersection of any two street lines; the fence is at least 75% open; and a
fence permit is obtained.
   (B)   The maximum height of a fence is listed by each sports or recreational
facility or areas as follows:
 
Use                                                    Maximum Height (feet)
Baseball diamond backstop (public or private)          16
Elementary, middle or high schools (public or private) 8
Swimming pools (public)                                8
Tennis court (public or private)                       12
 
(Prior Code, § 155.005)
§ 153.06 SWIMMING POOL FENCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to swimming pool fences,
which are regulated by
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 155.006) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.07 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall own, construct or maintain any fence in
violation of this chapter. No person, firm or corporation shall fail or refuse
to comply with a stop work order issued by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to
this chapter. All owners of record of property on which a fence is constructed
or maintained, and all persons who control such property, are responsible for
compliance of such fence with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.007) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any fence constructed or maintained in violation of this chapter is hereby
declared a nuisance. The corporate authorities of the village may, in their
discretion, apply to an appropriate Court for an order abating any such
nuisance, in addition to any other remedies available to the village under this
chapter or at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 155.009) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 153.09 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE; GRACE PERIOD FOR CERTAIN FENCES.
   (A)   Except as stated in division (B) below, no fence lawfully existing as
of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and not within
an easement owned by the village or within an easement dedicated to the public
use shall be rendered illegal solely because of this chapter. However, no fence
which does not conform to this chapter shall be enlarged or heightened; nor
shall such a fence, if removed, be replaced; nor shall such a fence, if damaged
to an extent greater than 50% of its full replacement value, be reconstructed.
   (B)   All fences in the village which violate §§
153.01(D) and
153.02(D) of this chapter shall be brought into compliance therewith, or
removed, within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
   (C)   A fence which is located within a public or utility right-of-way shall
be removed within 14 days of request by the village. This provision is not a
limitation on the authority of the village to remove such a fence in its sole
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 155.010) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750. Each
day a fence in violation of this chapter continues in existence shall be deemed
a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 155.008) (Ord. 2000-30, passed 7-17-2000)
CHAPTER 154: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Relationship to Zoning Ordinance
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Applicability
   
154.05   General requirements
   
154.06   Permitted uses
   
154.07   Administratively approved uses
   
154.08   Special use permits
   
154.09   Buildings or other equipment storage
   
154.10   Removal of abandoned antennas and towers
   
154.11   Non-conforming uses
   
154.12   Special procedures for special use determinations
   
154.13   Severability
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general guidelines for the
siting of wireless communications towers and antennas.
   (B)   The goals of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      (2)   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas;
      (3)   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      (4)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
      (5)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      (6)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      (7)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      (8)   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      (9)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
   (C)   In furtherance of these goals, the village shall give due
consideration to its Comprehensive Plan, zoning map, existing land uses and
environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites for the location of towers
and antennas.
(Prior Code, § 154.001) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.02 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter is closely related to and shall be interpreted together with
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances. All terms contained in this chapter shall
have the same meanings as when used in
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise. However, in the event of any conflict between this chapter and
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 154.002) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK. The lines that connect a provider’s towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, including permitted
towers or antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such approval
is current and not expired.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers
or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton.
   ZONING CHAPTER. Refers to Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 154.003) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New towers and antennas. All new towers or antennas in village shall
be subject to these regulations, except as provided in divisions (B) through
(D) below.
   (B)   Amateur radio station operators/receive only antennas. This chapter
shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under
70 feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur
radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas.
   (C)   Preexisting towers or antennas. Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter, other
than the requirements of §
154.05(F) and (G) of this chapter.
   (D)   AM array. For purposes of implementing this chapter, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
(Prior Code, § 154.004) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses under the zoning chapter. A different
existing use of an existing structure on the same lot shall not preclude the
installation of an antenna or tower on such lot.
   (B)   Lot size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with zoning district regulations, including, but not
limited to, setback requirements, lot-coverage requirements and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   (C)   Inventory of existing sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide to the Zoning Administrator an inventory of its existing
towers, antennas or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are either
within the jurisdiction of village or within one mile of the border thereof,
including specific information about the location, height and design of each
tower. The Zoning Administrator may share such information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals or special use permits under
this chapter or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of village; provided, however, that, the Zoning Administrator is
not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that
such sites are available or suitable.
   (D)   Aesthetics. Towers and antennas shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
   (E)   Lighting. Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   (F)   State or federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state
or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If
such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six months of the
effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a different compliance
schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal agency. Failure to
bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owner’s expense.
   (G)   Building codes; safety standards.
      (1)   To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the owner of a tower
shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in
applicable state or local Building Codes and the applicable standards for
towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended
from time to time. If, upon inspection, the village concludes that a tower
fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to
persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the tower,
the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into compliance with such
standards.
      (2)   Failure to bring such tower into compliance within said 30 days
shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s
expense.
   (H)   Not essential services. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this chapter and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities or private utilities.
   (I)   Franchises. Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify, that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in village have been obtained and
shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Zoning Administrator.
   (J)   Public notice. For purposes of this chapter, any special use request,
variance request or appeal of an administratively approved use or special use
shall require public notice to all abutting property owners and all property
owners of properties that are located within the corresponding separation
distance listed in Table 2 of §
154.08 of this chapter, in addition to any notice otherwise required by
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances.
   (K)   Signs. No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
   (L)   Buildings and support equipment. Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of §
154.09 of this chapter.
   (M)   Multiple antenna/tower plan. The village encourages the users of
towers and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple
towers and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall
be given priority in the review process.
(Prior Code, § 154.005) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   General. The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require administrative approval or a special use permit.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are specifically permitted:
antennas or towers located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by
the village; provided, a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has
been approved by the village.
(Prior Code, § 154.006) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.07 ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED USES.
   (A)   General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may administratively approve the uses
listed in this section.
      (2)   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
Zoning Administrator providing the information set forth in §
154.08(B)(1) and (B)(3) of this chapter and a non-refundable fee of $250 to
reimburse the village for the costs of reviewing the application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with §§
154.05 and
154.08(B)(4) and (B)(5) of this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall respond to each such application
within 60 days after receiving it by either approving or denying the
application. If the Zoning Administrator fails to respond to the applicant
within said 60 days, then the application shall be deemed to be approved.
      (5)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in a case involving shared use, administratively waive any
zoning district setback requirements in §
154.08(B)(4) of this chapter, or separation distances between towers in §
154.08(B)(5) of this chapter by up to 50%.
      (6)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles, administratively
allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole construction.
      (7)   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant’s
administrative remedy shall be limited to filing an application for a special
use permit pursuant to §
154.08 of this chapter.
   (B)   List of administratively approved uses. The following uses may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator after conducting an administrative review:
      (1)   Locating a tower or antenna, including the placement of additional
buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said tower or
antenna, in any industrial zoning district;
      (2)   Locating antennas on existing structures or towers consistent with
the terms of divisions (B)(2)(a) and (b) below.
         (a)   Antennas on existing structures. Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as an accessory
use to any commercial, industrial, professional, institutional or multi-family
structure of eight or more dwelling units; provided:
            1.   The antenna does not extend more than 30 feet above the
highest point of the structure;
            2.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            3.   The antenna complies with all applicable Building Codes.
         (b)   Antennas on existing towers. An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator and, to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
towers, collocation of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers
shall take precedence over the construction of new towers; provided, such
collocation is accomplished in a manner consistent with the following.
            1.   A tower which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the
existing tower, unless the Zoning Administrator allows reconstruction as a
monopole.
            2.   Height.
               a.   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed 30 feet over the tower’s existing height, to accommodate
the collocation of an additional antenna.
               b.   The height change referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above may only occur one time per communication tower.
               c.   The additional height referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above shall not require an additional distance separation as set forth in §
154.08 of this chapter. The tower’s premodification height shall be used to
calculate such distance separations.
            3.   On-site location.
               a.   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved on-site within 50 feet of its
existing location.
               b.   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only
one tower may remain on the site.
               c.   A relocated on-site tower shall continue to be measured
from the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between towers pursuant to §
154.08(B)(5) of this chapter. The relocation of a tower hereunder shall, in no
way, be deemed to cause a violation of §
154.08(B)(5) of this chapter.
               d.   The on-site relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands as
established in §
154.08(B)(5) shall only be permitted when approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Locating any new tower in a non-residential zoning district other
than industrial provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the tower
can structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the
applicant; the Zoning Administrator concludes the tower is in conformity with
the goals set forth in §
154.01 of this chapter and the requirements of §
154.05 of this chapter; the tower meets the setback requirements in §
154.08(B)(4) of this chapter and separation distances in §
154.08(B)(5) of this chapter; and the tower meets the following height and
usage criteria:
         (a)   For a single user: up to 90 feet in height;
         (b)   For two users: up to 120 feet in height; and
         (c)   For three or more users: up to 150 feet in height.
      (4)   Installing a cable microcell network through the use of multiple
low-powered transmitters/receivers attached to existing wireline systems, such
as conventional cable or telephone wires, or similar technology that does not
require the use of towers.
(Prior Code, § 154.007) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.08 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special
use permits for towers or antennas by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under §
154.06 of this chapter or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to
§
154.07 of this chapter, then a special use permit shall be required for the
construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, except as modified in this section.
      (3)   In recommending the grant of a special use permit, the Planning
Commission may suggest conditions to the extent the Planning Commission
concludes such conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the
proposed tower on adjoining properties.
      (4)   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant
submits, whether civil, mechanical or electrical, shall be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (5)   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the information
described in this section and a non-refundable fee of $250, plus a commitment
to reimburse the village its out-of-pocket costs for a review by a licensed
engineer.
   (B)   Towers.
      (1)   Information required. In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits pursuant to
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, applicants for a special use permit for a
tower shall submit the following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), zoning
classification of the site and all properties within the applicable separation
distances set forth in division (B)(5) below, adjacent roadways, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed
tower and any other structures, topography, parking and other information
deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be necessary to assess compliance with
this chapter;
         (b)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable);
         (c)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties and unplatted
residentially zoned properties;
         (d)   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to §
154.05(C) of this chapter shall be shown on an updated site plan or map. The
applicant shall also identify the type of construction of the existing tower(s)
and the owner/operator of the existing tower(s), if known;
         (e)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
         (f)   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
         (g)   A description of compliance with §
154.05(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (J), (L) and (M) of this chapter, and divisions
(B)(4) and (B)(5) below and all applicable federal, state or local laws;
         (h)   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether
construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas
for future users;
         (i)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the municipality;
         (j)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower; and
         (k)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the village based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
      (2)   Factors considered in granting special use permits for towers. In
addition to the standards for consideration of special use permit applications
pursuant to
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances, the Planning Commission shall consider the
following factors in determining whether to recommend issuance of a special use
permit, although the Planning Commission may recommend waiver or reduction of
the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the Planning
Commission concludes that the goals of this chapter are better served thereby:
         (a)   Height of the proposed tower;
         (b)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         (c)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         (d)   Surrounding topography;
         (e)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         (f)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         (g)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         (h)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technology. No new tower shall be recommended unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Planning Commission that no
existing tower, structure or alternative technology that does not require the
use of towers or structures can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna.
An applicant shall submit information requested by the Planning Commission
related to the availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technology. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing
tower, structure or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant’s
proposed antenna may consist of any of the following:
         (a)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements;
         (b)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements;
         (c)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment;
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna;
         (e)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable;
         (f)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable; and
         (g)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low-powered transmitters/receivers attached to a
wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new
tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable.
      (4)   Setbacks. The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required; provided, however, that, the
Planning Commission may recommend reduction of the standard setback
requirements if the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least 75% of the
height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
         (b)   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements.
      (5)   Separation. The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that, the Planning Commission may reduce the standard separation
requirements if the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Separation from off-site uses/designated areas.
            1.   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the lot line of the off-site uses and/or designated areas as specified in
Table 1 of this section, except as otherwise provided in Table 1 of this
section.
            2.   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in Table 1 of this section.
Table 1
Off-Site Use/Designated Area Separation Distance
Table 1
Off-Site Use/Designated Area              Separation Distance
Existing multi-family residential units   100 feet or 100% height of tower
greater than duplex units                 whichever is greatest
Non-residentially zoned lands or non-     None; only setbacks apply
residential uses
Single-family or duplex residential       200 feet or 300% height of tower
units1                                    whichever is greatest
Vacant single-family duplex residentially
zoned or land which is either platted or  200 feet or 300% height of tower2
has preliminary subdivision plan approval
which is not expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned      100 feet or 100% height of tower
lands3                                    whichever is greater
NOTES TO TABLE:
1 Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
2 Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback line.
3 Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
 
         (b)   Separation distances between towers.
            1.   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable for
and measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers. The separation
distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the
base of the existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of
the proposed tower. The separation distance (listed in linear feet) shall be
shown in Table 2 of this section.
 
Table 2
Existing Towers, Types Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet in Monopole Less Than 75
                                     Height or Greater   Feet in Height
Guyed                  500     500   1,500               750
Lattice                5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Monopole 75 feet in    1,500   1,500 1,500               750
height or greater
Monopole less than 75  750     750   750                 750
feet in height
 
      (6)   Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate
anti-climbing device; provided however, that the Planning Commission may waive
such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
      (7)   Landscaping. The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required;
provided, however, that, the Planning Commission may waive such requirements if
the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least four feet wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
         (b)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         (c)   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
(Prior Code, § 154.008) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.09 BUILDINGS OR OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   (A)   Antennas mounted on structures or rooftops. The equipment cabinet or
structure used in association with antennas shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The cabinet or structure shall not contain more than 225 square
feet of gross floor area or be more than 15 feet in height. In addition, for
buildings and structures which are less than 65 feet in height, the related
unmanned equipment structure, if over 150 square feet of gross floor area or
eight feet in height, shall be located on the ground and shall not be located
on the roof of the structure.
      (2)   If the equipment structure is located on the roof of a building,
the area of the equipment structure and other equipment and structures shall
not occupy more than 10% of the roof area.
      (3)   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable Building Codes.
   (B)   Antennas mounted on utility poles or light poles. The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   In residential districts, the equipment cabinet or structure may be
located:
         (a)   In a front or side yard; provided, the cabinet or structure is
no greater than three feet in height or 16 square feet of gross floor area and
the cabinet/structure is located a minimum of 15 feet from all lot lines. The
cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate
height of at least 42 to 48 inches and a planted height of at least 36 inches;
and
         (b)   In a rear yard; provided, the cabinet or structure is no greater
than five feet in height or 25 square feet in gross floor area. The cabinet/
structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of
eight feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
      (2)   In commercial or industrial districts, the equipment cabinet or
structure shall be no greater than five feet in height or 25 square feet in
gross floor area. The structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen
hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet and a planted height of at least 36
inches.
   (C)   Antennas located on towers. The related unmanned equipment structure
shall not contain more than 225 square feet of gross floor area or be more than
15 feet in height, and shall be located in accordance with the minimum yard
requirements of the zoning district in which located.
   (D)   Modification of building size requirements. The requirements of
divisions (A) through (C) above may be modified by the Zoning Administrator in
the case of administratively approved uses or by the Planning Commission in the
case of uses permitted by special use to encourage collocation.
(Prior Code, § 154.009) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.10 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower
shall remove the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the village
notifying the owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned antenna
or tower within said 90 days shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at
the owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a single tower, then
this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the
tower.
(Prior Code, § 154.010) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.11 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   No expansion of non-conforming use. Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a non-conforming use or
structure.
   (B)   Preexisting towers. Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including replacement
with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be permitted on such
preexisting towers. New construction other than routine maintenance on a
preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Rebuilding damaged or destroyed non-conforming towers or antennas.
Notwithstanding §
154.10 of this chapter, bona fide non-conforming towers or antennas that are
damaged or destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain
administrative approval or a special use permit and without having to meet the
separation requirements specified in §
154.08(B)(4) and (B)(5) of this chapter. The type, height and location of the
tower on-site shall be of the same type and intensity as the original facility
approval. Building permits to rebuild the facility shall comply with the then
applicable Building Codes and shall be obtained within 180 days from the date
the facility is damaged or destroyed. If no permit is obtained or if said
permit expires, the tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified in
§
154.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.011) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.12 SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL USE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The procedures for special uses shall be the same as in the zoning
chapter with respect to a public hearing and approval of the special use by
ordinance of the corporate authorities.
   (B)   However, the following requirements, peculiar to the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, shall apply.
      (1)   If the applicant shows that the antenna tower and the equipment to
be installed thereon meet all requirements of the FCC, the Planning Commission
shall disallow and disregard evidence regarding the environmental effects
(including interference) of radio frequency emissions, and the Village Board
shall disregard any such evidence in making its final determination.
      (2)   All findings of the Planning Commission shall be in writing and
shall be based on substantial evidence.
      (3)   Since the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires a written
record, there shall be a certified shorthand reporter present at any public
hearing, and a written transcript shall be prepared of any public hearing.
      (4)   The Village Board shall not take final action on a special use
permit application until all fees required to be paid, including reimbursement
of the cost of an engineering review, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 154.012) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 154.13 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sections and clauses of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of the chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 154.013) (Ord. 99-005, passed 3-1-1999)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Jurisdiction
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Severability
   
155.005   Plat; when required
   
155.006   Definitions
   
155.007   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
155.008   Variance of subdivision requirements
   
155.009   Review of adverse Commission decision
   
155.010   Extensions of time
   
155.011   Forms
   
155.012   Subdivision review procedure
Location and Sketch Maps
   
155.025   Purpose
   
155.026   Submission requirements
   
155.027   Subdivision site suitability
   
155.028   Location and sketch maps review process
   
155.029   Validity of location and sketch maps approval
Construction Plans
   
155.040   Purpose
   
155.041   Construction plans in the event there is more than one final plat
   
155.042   Submission requirements
   
155.043   Construction plan review process
Construction and Bonding of Public Improvements
   
155.055   Effect of approval plans
   
155.056   Notification of construction
   
155.057   Review and inspection fees
   
155.058   Inspection of construction
   
155.059   Security for public improvements
   
155.060   Partial reduction of security
   
155.061   Length security in effect; forfeiture
   
155.062   Approval of public improvements
Preliminary Plan
   
155.075   Purpose
   
155.076   Submission requirements
   
155.077   Preliminary plan review process
   
155.078   Commission action
   
155.079   Village Board action
   
155.080   Validity of preliminary plan; reaffirmation of preliminary plan
Final Plat
   
155.095   Purpose
   
155.096   Submission requirements
   
155.097   Final plat review process
   
155.098   Submission of final plat to Village Board
   
155.099   Village Board approval
   
155.100   Recording the final plat
   
155.101   Acceptance of public improvements
   
155.102   Effect of final acceptance
Design Standards and Specifications for Required Public Improvements
   
155.115   State specifications
   
155.116   Right-of-way of streets
   
155.117   Street design
   
155.118   Lot and block design
   
155.119   Erosion and sediment control
   
155.120   Utility easements; location of utilities
   
155.121   Surface water drainage
   
155.122   Backfill over underground utilities
   
155.123   Sidewalks
   
155.124   Sewage disposal
   
155.125   Water supply
   
155.126   Electric distribution
   
155.127   Street lighting
   
155.128   Public areas and open space
Minor Subdivision
   
155.140   Purpose
   
155.141   Location map
   
155.142   Final plat submission requirements
   
155.143   Review process
   
155.144   Submission of minor subdivision plat to the Village Board
   
155.145   Village Board approval
   
155.146   Recording the minor subdivision plat
   
155.147   Limitations on minor subdivisions
Large Scale Developments
   
155.160   Purpose
   
155.161   Submission requirements
   
155.162   Standards and requirements
   
155.163   Review process
   
155.164   Commission action
   
155.165   Review by the Village Board
   
155.166   Construction plans
   
155.167   Construction and securities
Tract Survey
   
155.180   Purpose
   
155.181   Submission requirements
   
155.182   Review process
   
155.183   Recording the tract survey
   
Appendix A: Detail of rear yard underdrain
   
Appendix B: Paved ditch detail
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “The 1996 Land Subdivision Ordinance of the
Village of Riverton, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 150.001) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.002 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The subdivision jurisdiction of the village shall include all land
within the corporate limits of the village. If a Comprehensive Plan is adopted,
the subdivision jurisdiction shall be extended to include all unincorporated
land within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   When the one and one-half mile subdivision jurisdiction of the village
and that of another municipality overlap, a contractual agreement between the
village and the other municipality may be established which designates
subdivision jurisdiction boundaries in the overlap area. In the absence of such
an agreement, the jurisdiction shall extend to a median line equidistant from
the village’s boundary and the boundary of the other municipality nearest to
the boundary of the village at any given point on the line.
(Prior Code, § 150.002) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote growth and development
and to regulate and control the division of land within the subdivision
approval jurisdiction of the village in order:
      (1)   To provide for the legal and orderly division of land by requiring
proper description, monumentation and recording of subdivided land; and
      (2)   To promote growth of the community which protects the public health
and safety and provides essential public services to existing and future
residents.
   (B)   The goals of this chapter shall be to promote:
      (1)   Conformance with the Village Comprehensive Plan, if adopted;
      (2)   Provision of adequate public services including public water and
sewer, electricity and police and fire protection to land to be developed;
      (3)   Prevention of leap frog and scattered development;
      (4)   Protection of the area’s public water supply;
      (5)   Prevention of development on unsuitable land;
      (6)   Provision of safe and efficient street network;
      (7)   Prevention of agricultural/residential conflicts;
      (8)   Conservation and protection of natural resources;
      (9)   Prevention of inappropriate development in or filling of the 100-
year floodplain;
      (10)   Establishment of lots that are of a practical size and shape; and
      (11)   Enhancement and preservation of aesthetic qualities.
(Prior Code, § 150.003) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of the chapter shall not be affected by that decision.
(Prior Code, § 150.004) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.005 PLAT; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a subdivider of land within the subdivision
jurisdiction of the village to subdivide land into lots, blocks, streets,
alleys or public open space unless by plat in accordance with the laws of the
state and the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to divide land
without obtaining tract survey approval, when required.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply, except as noted with
respect to tract surveys, and no plat is required in any of the following
instances (Plats Act, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.):
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land except where the transfer results in the creation of
another buildable lot;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for the use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land owned for highway or other public purposes
or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on 7-17-1959, and not involving any new streets or easements of
access. If a division is made prior to 10-1-1973, for which an exemption is
claimed pursuant to this division (B)(8), and the division results in one part
being greater than five acres and the other part being less than five acres,
then the subsequent division of the part greater than five acres shall qualify
for the exemption set forth in division (B)(9) below. If a division is made on
or after 10-1-1973, for which an exemption is claimed pursuant to this division
(B)(8) and the division results in one part being greater than five acres and
the other part being less than five acres, then the subsequent division of the
part greater than five acres shall not qualify for the exemption set forth in
division (B)(9) below;
      (9)   The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a tract of five
acres or larger when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided,
however, that, this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent
lots from the same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and
configuration of the larger tract on 10-1-1973; and, provided that, this
exemption does not invalidate any other local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of the land; and
      (10)   The division of a lot of record as of 1-1-1996, if the new lots
created by such division, together with any structures existing as of the date
of the division, meet all requirements of
Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances for the village with respect to the zoning
district in which such new lots are located, and not involving any new streets
or easements of access; provided, however, that, this exemption shall not apply
to the further division of any lots created thereby.
   (C)   A tract survey shall be required for a division or subdivision of land
for which no plat is required under division (B) above. All tract surveys shall
be approved and recorded in accordance with §§
155.180 through
155.183 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.005) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side
of a property which abuts on a street.
   ARTERIAL ROADWAY NETWORK PLAN. The portion of the Comprehensive Plan, if
adopted, providing and planning for the present and future system of streets
for the village.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Final plans showing any changes from the construction plans,
indicating in detail how the project was constructed. Such plans show all
public facilities as built on the surface and underground, both on public
property and on easements and also indicate all private utility locations that
are known. Details shown include: sanitary and storm sewers, manholes, invert
grades, benchmarks, location of sanitary sewer laterals, street inlets,
hydrants, general flow of surface water and grades for drainage swales on the
lot. The AS-BUILT PLANS carry the seal of a registered professional engineer
certifying that construction was completed in conformance with the plans and
specifications.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
parks, railroad rights-of-way or bodies of water.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets penetrating neighborhoods collecting traffic from
local streets and channeling it into the arterial street system. A minor amount
of through traffic may be expected, but collector streets primarily provide
land access service and carry local traffic movements within residential
neighborhoods and commercial and industrial areas.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The drawings prepared in the manner and containing the
data, documents and information required by §§
155.040 through
155.043 of this chapter.
   COVENANTS. A private agreement written into the deed in which property
owners of the development promise to do or refrain from doing certain acts.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A permanent street with a single access point that ends in a
turnaround and cannot be further extended without taking property not dedicated
as a street. A CUL-DE-SAC begins at its point of intersection with a street
with multiple access.
   DEDICATE. To transfer ownership of land, either fee simple or a partial
interest, for a public use and for a public body to accept it for that public
use.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A natural watercourse, swale, depression or ditch for the
drainage of surface waters and storm waters.
   EASEMENT. A liberty, privilege or advantage which a party or the general
public may have regarding the land of another. The remainder of the rights in
the land remain in the hands of the owner who retains the legal title.
   EXISTING TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY. Any public road in the township which is owned
and maintained by the township.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawing of a subdivision prepared in the manner and
containing the data, documents and information required by this chapter showing
lots of record and which is to be recorded.
   FLAG LOT. A lot located behind another lot or parcel with access to a public
street only by a narrow strip of land extending from the buildable area of the
lot to the street.
   IDOT. The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision which involves the
construction of a multi-family or commercial building on a lot or parcel of
land seven acres or more in size or two or more principal multi-family or
commercial buildings on a lot or parcel of land of any size served by an
internal street and utility distribution.
   LOCAL STREETS. Streets not classified in a higher system which primarily
provide direct access to abutting land and access to higher types of roadways.
They offer the lowest level of mobility being the narrowest and shortest
streets in the street system. Service to through traffic is deliberately
discouraged.
   LOCATION MAP. A preliminary drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
containing the data and information required by this chapter.
   LOT. The tract within a subdivision marked by the subdivider as a numbered
tract to be offered as a unit of land for sale or transfer of ownership.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND ROADWAYS. The highest traffic volume corridors
serving major activity centers and the longest trip desires. Service to
abutting land is subordinate to the provision of travel service to major
traffic movements. They are normally spaced on a one-mile grid pattern and may
include expressways.
   MAY. Means something is discretionary.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
      (1)   Streets and roadways which interconnect with and augment the major
arterial street system and provide service trips of moderate length at a
somewhat lower level of travel mobility than major arterials.
      (2)   MINOR ARTERIALS place more emphasis on land access and distribute
travel to geographic areas smaller than those identified with major arterials.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The creation of a total of up to four lots (counting the
original tract from which the lots are created) which front along a public
road.
   OFFICIAL PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Riverton, Illinois, Comprehensive
Plan, if adopted.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any or all persons, entities, trusts or corporation holding legal
title to the land to be subdivided.
      (2)   If the OWNER is a trust, all beneficiaries shall be listed as
OWNERS.
      (3)   If the OWNER is a corporation, all principals and officers shall be
listed as OWNERS.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The distance from the edge of the pavement to the edge of
the pavement, but not including curb and gutter.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision that allows the
development of ten or more acres of land with variations of some of the
restrictions of standard zoning and subdivision regulations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The Riverton Planning Commission.
   PLAT. The action of officially subdividing land or the final plat which is
approved by the village and recorded.
   PLATS OFFICER. The Zoning Administrator of the Village of Riverton.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A plan of proposed subdivision or greater area prepared in
the manner and containing the data, documents and information required by this
chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted.
   PRIVATE STREET. A purported street, way or strip of land reserved for the
use of a limited number of persons or purposes and which is not a publicly
dedicated street.
   PUBLIC CROSSWALK. A ten-foot right-of-way through the interior of a block in
which a sidewalk meeting the construction standards of this chapter is built.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage way,
water main, sidewalk, parkway or other facility which the village or other
governmental unit owns, maintains and operates.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street owned and maintained by a governmental body.
   RECORD. To file a final plat approved by the village with the County
Recorder of Deeds.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land which has been dedicated in fee simple to a
public body for streets, alleys and other public improvements as determined by
the public body.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit connected with the sewer system that
is designed to carry liquids and solids other than storm water to the
Springfield Metro Sanitary District sanitary sewer treatment plants.
   SERVICE ACCESS STREET. A street parallel to and adjacent to a major arterial
which provides access from the arterial to abutting properties.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance required between the building and
the lot line adjoining the street right-of-way.
   SHALL. Something is mandatory.
   SKETCH PLAN. A general layout of a proposed subdivision prepared in the
manner and containing the information required by this chapter.
   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit for carrying storm water to a drainage
course.
   STORM WATER. Water from roof downspouts, basement footing perimeter drains
and yard drains as well as surface runoff.
   STUB STREET. A street which is intended to be extended, but which
temporarily ends.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any or all owners, agents or persons controlling land who
commence proceedings under this chapter by submitting location and sketch maps
to the Planning Commission office or by making land improvements in the form of
buildings, drives and utilities, but not necessarily involving the actual
division of land.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
      (1)   The:
         (a)   Division of land into two or more parts, any of which is less
than five acres in size (see §
155.005(A) of this chapter for exemptions);
         (b)   Dedication of streets or easements of access; or
         (c)   Creation of a planned unit development.
      (2)   In the event a subdivision is a planned unit development, the
standards and regulations of this chapter shall govern.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS. The County Superintendent of Highways.
   SURETY. A bonding agency that is financially qualified to do business in the
state.
   THROUGH LOT. Any lot which is not a corner lot and which adjoins two streets
that are parallel or within 45 degrees of being parallel to each other.
   TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER. The Township Highway Commissioner for the
township in which the subdivision is located.
   TRACT SURVEY. A land survey, made by a state professional land surveyor,
complying with the requirements of § 1 of an Act to Revise the Law in Relation
to Plats (765 ILCS Ch. 205/0.01), as now or hereafter amended.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal marking or device placed on or
adjacent to a street or highway by authority of the village, the Illinois
Department of Transportation or the County Superintendent of Highways.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Riverton, Illinois.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the village.
   VILLAGE’S CONSULTING ENGINEER. The professional engineer appointed or
designated by the Village Board of Trustees.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the village.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the village.
(Prior Code, §150.006) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 15-027, passed 10-5-
2015; Ord. 19-018, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 155.007 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator of the village shall be the staff person
primarily responsible for administering this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Accept all plats and other documents for filing with the village;
      (2)   Ensure that the proper number of plats and other documents as
required by this chapter are filed by the subdivider;
      (3)   Ensure the timely and proper dissemination of all plats and other
documents to interested parties;
      (4)   Perform whatever staff work is required by the Planning Commission;
      (5)   Assure collection of all fees required by this chapter;
      (6)   Pay all such fees over to the General Fund of the village; and
      (7)   Ensure, prior to the approval and signing of any final plat, that
all necessary fees have been paid by the subdivider.
   (C)   In addition to these general duties, the Zoning Administrator shall
have all other duties required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.007) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.008 VARIANCE OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A subdivider may request a variance of the requirements of this
chapter. Application for a variance shall be made in writing and submitted with
the location and sketch maps unless the need is not then evident. Variance
applications shall clearly state the provisions to be varied and the reasons
why the variance is needed. In all cases, variance requests shall be made no
later than the time the preliminary plan is reviewed by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   If, as a result of changes imposed by the Planning Commission at its
preliminary plan review meeting, the subdivider desires a variance, it may be
requested orally at that meeting.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of the
requested variance by the Village Board. Along with its recommendation, the
Planning Commission shall transmit findings to the Village Board as to whether
the requested variance complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The intent of this chapter is maintained;
      (2)   Extraordinary circumstances of topography, land ownership, adjacent
development or other circumstances not provided for in the chapter exist;
      (3)   The extraordinary circumstances will result in a hardship, not
merely an inconvenience;
      (4)   The circumstances upon which the request for variance is based are
not common to most other tracts of land;
      (5)   The circumstances upon which the request for variance is based are
not the result of the subdivider’s affirmative act or failure to act; and
      (6)   The purpose of a variation is not based exclusively on the desire
to eliminate development costs at the expense of the public improvement
standards as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   When the Village Board considers the preliminary plan, it shall
consider the requested variance.
      (2)   The Village Board may, if it finds that the requirements of
division (C) above are met, approve the plan with the requested variation; or
it may require conditions to the variation if it believes the conditions are in
the public interest; or it may, in its discretion, deny the variation and
insist on the literal application of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.073) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.009 REVIEW OF ADVERSE COMMISSION DECISION.
   (A)   If a minor subdivision location map is disapproved by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider may file a petition within 30 days of the Planning
Commission’s decision with the Village Clerk asking for review of the
Commission’s decision by the Village Board.
   (B)   The petition shall point out those parts of the Commission’s decision
to which the subdivider objects.
   (C)   (1)   A public hearing shall be conducted by the Village Board after a
one week’s notice has been mailed by the Village Clerk to the subdivider.
      (2)   During the hearing, the Village Board shall review the sufficiency
or the propriety of the plan in light of the Planning Commission’s decision.
      (3)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Village Board may affirm or
modify the decision of the Planning Commission or approve the location map or
site plan.
(Prior Code, § 150.074) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.010 EXTENSIONS OF TIME.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter requires an act to be performed by the village
within a certain time, the time requirement may be extended by agreement of the
subdivider and the village.
   (B)   Delays resulting from the failure of the subdivider to promptly supply
information required by the village shall automatically extend the time in
which the village must act.
(Prior Code, § 150.075) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.011 FORMS.
   The following is the dedication of public improvement form.
 
[THIS SPACE FOR RECORDER]
 
DEDICATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
ATTACHED TO REAL ESTATE AND BILL OF SALE
 
FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY FOR                             SUBDIVISION,                       PLAT
 
This dedication and bill of sale is made by                                         “Grantor” in favor of the Village of Riverton, Illinois, an Illinois municipal corporation.
 
WHEREAS, Grantor was the owner of certain property platted as Plat No.                of                                 Subdivision, and said plat of subdivision in the Village of Riverton was recorded on                           as document no.
               with the Recorder of Deeds of Sangamon County, Illinois; WHEREAS, pursuant to § 3 of the Illinois Plat Act, the acknowledgment and recording of the plat was a conveyance in fee simple of such portions of the platted premises as were
marked and noted on the Plat as donated or granted to the public, including all easements and rights-of-way; WHEREAS, pursuant to the Village of Riverton Subdivision Ordinance, the public improvements constructed on the platted premises are not
considered to be accepted by the Village of Riverton until the requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance are met and this dedication of public improvements and bill of sale for personal property is recorded by the Village of Riverton along with a
resolution or ordinance accepting the dedication.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and in consideration of the Village of Riverton’s acceptance of title to and all further responsibilities with respect to the public improvements contained on said plat of said subdivision, the
grantor does hereby dedicate and convey to the Village of Riverton, Illinois, all of the improvements to real property included within the roadway rights-of-way depicted on said plat, including, but not limited to, roads, curbs, gutters and
sidewalks. Grantor hereby grants, sells, transfers and delivers to the Village of Riverton, Illinois, the following goods, chattels and other items of personal property attached to or constructed within said subdivision:
 
1. Each and every part and item of a system of storm sewers, within public rights-of-way of said plat of subdivision for the purpose of collection, transport and flow of storm waters. This transfer does not include any retention or detention works or
drainage swales, ditches and depressions or storm sewers not within a public right-of-way which will remain the maintenance responsibility of the individual lot owners or the homeowners association, as the case may be.
2. Each and every part and item of a system for the collection, transportation and treatment of sanitary sewage by the sewer system of the Village of Riverton within said plat, excepting those pipes which transport the sewage of a single building
into a sewer main and commonly known as a house or building service.
3. Each and every part and item of a system for distribution of water provided by the waterworks system of the Village of Riverton within said plat, except the pipes which transport water from the meter pit to a building, and commonly known as a
house or building service.
4. Each and every part and item of a system for the distribution of electricity provided by the electrical system of the Village of Riverton within said subdivision, except the electrical equipment and wires on the user side of the electric
transformer or pedestal and commonly known as a house or building service.
5. Each and every part and item for the distribution of natural gas provided by the gas system of the Village of Riverton, on the village side of the meter, and including the meter.
 
Grantor hereby covenants that it is the lawful owner of the aforedescribed goods, chattels and personalty; that subject to the prior dedication of rights to the Village of Riverton in connection with recordation of the plat it is the lawful owner of
the aforedescribed improvements to real property; and such items are free from all encumbrances; that grantor has the right to sell the same or dedicate the same as aforesaid, and that the grantor warrants and will defend the same against the claims
and demands of all persons.
 
Grantor assigns to the Village of Riverton all outstanding warranties and guaranties by any contractor or subcontractor with respect to any public works dedicated or conveyed pursuant to this instrument.
 
This dedication and sale is effective upon its acceptance by ordinance or resolution of the Village of Riverton, Illinois, and recordation of same with the Recorder of Deeds of Sangamon County, Illinois.
 
SIGNED AND ACKNOWLEDGED this             day of                               ,            .
                                                                                                                             
   Authorized Signature
 
SUBSCRIBED AND ACKNOWLEDGED before me this             day of                               ,            .
                                                                                                                             
Notary Public   
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 150, App. A-1)
§ 155.012 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The following is the subdivison review procedure.
 Number of Prints Reviewed By Payment Approval Valid For
              Number of Reviewed By      Payment          Approval Valid
              Prints                                      For
Location map
Minor         10        RPC              None             1 year
subdivision
Location and  10        RPC              None             1 year
sketch maps
Preliminary   12        RPC              $100             3 years
plan                    Village Board
Construction                             Plan and         As long as
plans         3         Village Engineer inspection fee - prelim. current
                                         See Note 2
                                         $100 plus plan
Final plat    12        RPC              review and       2 years
                        Village Board    inspection fee -
                                         See Note 2
Preliminary             RPC                               3 years
plan          12        Village Board    None             renewable time
reaffirmation
Minor         10        RPC              $100             2 years
subdivision             Village Board
                                         $10 plus plan
Large scale   12        RPC              review and
development             Village Board    inspection fee -
                                         See Note 2
Note 1: RPC = Riverton Planning Commission
Note 2: Plan review and inspection fee - .7% of estimated construction
cost
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 150, App. A-4)
LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS
§ 155.025 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the location and sketch maps is to determine the suitability
of the site for subdividing and subsequent development. Suitability shall be
measured by the conformance with the Comprehensive Plan, effect on natural
resources and natural systems, ability to provide adequate essential services
to the site and conformance with the goals of this chapter set forth in §
155.003 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.008) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.026 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Information filed with the Planning Commission shall be of sufficient detail
so that the Commission can determine whether and how essential services will be
provided and if the site is suitable.
   (A)   Location map. The location map shall consist of data added to an
existing base map of a suitable scale, covering an area of at least one mile
radius from the tract proposed for development. The location map shall show the
following information:
      (1)   North point, scale and date;
      (2)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
      (3)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided; and
      (4)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided.
   (B)   Sketch map. The sketch map shall show the general layout and character
of the proposed development. The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to the
inch. Exact dimensions or engineering plans are not required. The sketch map
shall show the following information:
      (1)   North point, scale and date;
      (2)   Area to be subdivided with general dimensions;
      (3)   Proposed street network and alignments with existing streets;
      (4)   General lot layout;
      (5)   Potential open space: public parks, existing waterways, drainage or
retention areas and the like; and
      (6)   Outstanding or unusual natural features and vegetation.
   (C)   Additional information. In addition to the information required below,
any other information necessary for the Planning Commission to determine site
suitability or adequacy of mitigating factors as outlined in §
155.027 of this chapter shall be submitted:
      (1)   Title of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
engineer and land surveyor. A contact person should be designated;
      (3)   Proposed use and approximate number of housing units;
      (4)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (5)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (6)   Method of water supply;
      (7)   Electric service provider;
      (8)   Fire protection district; and
      (9)   School district.
(Prior Code, § 150.009) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.027 SUBDIVISION SITE SUITABILITY.
   (A)   Essential utilities and public services. Land proposed to be
subdivided shall have essential utilities and public services available within
a reasonable distance and time period. Land to which these essential utilities
and services will not be so provided shall be deemed unsuitable for
subdividing. Essential utilities and services and criteria for determining if
they can adequately be provided shall include the following:
      (1)   Sewage disposal.
         (a)   Sanitary sewer service provided by the village shall be the
preferred method of sewage disposal. If sanitary sewer service is currently
available to the land proposed to be subdivided, it shall be the sewage
disposal method used.
         (b)   If sanitary sewer service is not currently available but the
land is within the ultimate service area as identified in the village’s
facility plan and the village determines that sewer service will be available
within a reasonable period, the land may be deemed suitable for subdividing if:
            1.   Sanitary sewers will be installed by the subdivider for
service to each building site; and
            2.   IEPA-permitted on-site sewage disposal facilities can and will
be provided.
         (c)   If the land cannot be served with sanitary trunk sewers within a
reasonable period, or if the land is not within the ultimate service area as
identified in the village’s facility plan and, therefore, shall be unsuitable
for subdividing unless it can be shown that adequate private sewage systems can
be provided.
      (2)   Water supply.
         (a)   An IEPA-approved public water supply shall be the preferred
method of water supply.
         (b)   Private wells may be permitted for developments outside the
village if the developer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to extend
water mains to the land proposed to be subdivided. As a minimum guideline, the
extension of 120 degrees, plus or minus, of water main per lot of the
preliminary plan shall be deemed feasible. This distance shall be measured
between the nearest suitable public water main and the proposed development.
Mains within the development shall not count toward this extension footage.
      (3)   Fire protection.
         (a)   Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the following
conditions in order to be deemed suitable for subdividing:
            1.   Land shall be within a fire protection district, if possible;
            2.   There shall be a public road providing adequate access for
emergency vehicles to the site. Roadways shall have an all weather driving
surface (minimum oil and chip) with 20 feet of unobstructed width. Where a
bridge is required to be used as a part of the most direct fire truck access
route, it shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13 feet, six inches and be
constructed and maintained to carry the live loads imposed by fire trucks; and
            3.   There shall be a system of water mains or other source of
water adequate for firefighting purposes. Specific fire flows shall be
determined by the village’s fire protection district using a standard published
by the insurance service office entitled Guide for Determination of Required
Fire Flow.
         (b)   A full sprinkler system installed with adequate water available
as determined by the National Fire Protection Association Standards 13 or 13D
depending on the occupancy of the building shall also satisfy this requirement.
      (4)   Streets.
         (a)   The suitability of existing streets for access to the proposed
subdivision and/or for incorporation into the proposed subdivision’s street
system shall also be considered. A street shall be considered suitable if:
            1.   The street is constructed of all weather material (concrete,
asphalt, oil mat);
            2.   The paved area is at least 20 feet wide with a road bed 24
feet wide; and
            3.   The street has good drainage.
         (b)   If only a portion of the criteria set forth in this division (A)
(4) is met, the village’s consulting engineer, a representative of the
village’s fire protection district, and a representative of the Planning
Commission shall make the recommendation as to whether the street is suitable
for the proposed development or what improvements must be undertaken to make it
suitable.
      (5)   Police protection. In determining the suitability of land for
subdivision purposes, the distance that police would have to travel to respond
to a call for service shall be considered.
   (B)   Other requirements. Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The site must be in conformance with the Village Comprehensive
Plan, if adopted.
      (2)   The development must not be located in a 100-year floodplain or
flood prone area.
      (3)   The development must not be located in any environmentally
sensitive area including sites near the village’s water supply wells, unless
the subdivider can show that environmental concerns can be mitigated.
      (4)   The site must be of a shape, size and terrain so that usable lots
and streets in conformance with this chapter can and will be created.
      (5)   Development must not have a major conflict with existing use of
adjacent property (wastewater treatment plants, power plants, major industrial
plants, landfills, certain agricultural uses and the like) unless it is shown
that factors which cause the conflict can and will be mitigated.
      (6)   Development must not cause major off-site impacts and problems
relating to, but not limited to, streets, drainage water system, parks. If it
is determined by the Planning Commission that major off-site impacts will
result, the subdivider must agree to mitigate the portion of the impact caused
by the subdivision.
      (7)   When soils in the area to be developed have severe limitations for
building site development or sanitary facilities as determined by the USDA Soil
Conservation Service, the subdivider shall submit information indicating how
these limitations will be addressed.
(Prior Code, § 150.010) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.028 LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit 12 prints of the location and sketch maps
and supporting data to the Zoning Administrator. The subdivision will be
reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and distribute
the location map and sketch maps and support data as follows:
      (1)   Two prints to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   One print to the Village Superintendent of Public Works;
      (3)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (4)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (5)   One print to the village’s fire protection district;
      (6)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways, if applicable;
      (7)   One print to County Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (8)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner or IDOT,
if applicable; and
      (9)   One print to the appropriate school district.
   (C)   The entities listed in division (B) above shall transmit any comments
on suitability of the site in writing to the Planning Commission within seven
calendar days of receipt.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Village
Board with respect to the suitability of the site and the proposed layout no
later than 30 days after the plan was filed with the Village Clerk. Lack of
action within the allotted time period shall constitute a negative
recommendation to the Village Board.
   (E)   After receiving the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Village
Board shall, at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting, approve or
disapprove terms outlined in §
155.027 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.011) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.029 VALIDITY OF LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS APPROVAL.
   The location and sketch maps shall be valid for a period of one year after
Village Board approval. If a preliminary plan has not been submitted within the
one-year period, approval of the location and sketch maps shall expire. If
interest is renewed in subdividing the site at a later time, the entire
location and sketch maps review process and submission requirements shall be
repeated.
(Prior Code, § 150.012) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
CONSTRUCTION PLANS
§ 155.040 PURPOSE.
   Construction plans are intended to show the design of public improvements
for the subdivision so that a determination can be made as to whether village
standards are met and whether the improvements are compatible with existing
public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 150.019) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.041 CONSTRUCTION PLANS IN THE EVENT THERE IS MORE THAN ONE FINAL PLAT.
   Notwithstanding anything else in this chapter to the contrary, whenever the
subdivider anticipates more than one final plat arising from an approved
preliminary plan, the subdivider shall submit, along with the construction
plans for any final plat, the drainage and detention plans for each watershed
that is affected by the construction of the final plat. If a watershed is
partially affected by any final plat, then the subdivider shall submit drainage
and detention plans for the entire watershed irrespective of whether the
watershed is located partially outside the plat. No final plat shall be
approved until all construction work is completed, or security is given for
construction of drainage and detention works for all watersheds affected by the
final plat. Until all drainage works for the entire subdivision are built,
provisions shall be made in the construction plans if necessary for temporary
detention works for each plat as each plat is built.
(Prior Code, § 150.020) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.042 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction plans shall be submitted on sheets not larger than 24 by
36 inches and to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch.
   (B)   Construction plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   Cover sheet showing the location of the development; scales and
symbols that are used; index to sheets; summary of quantities; appropriate
place for approval of the village’s consulting engineer; and the signature and
seal of a registered professional engineer;
      (2)   North arrow and benchmarks with their elevations noted. Benchmarks
shall be referenced to mean sea level datum as determined by the United States
Geological Survey;
      (3)   Plan sheets showing the locations of all existing streets, right-
of-way lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, drainage ditches,
easements, rear lot drainage, direction of storm drainage flow, survey
monuments, water mains, fire hydrants and any other appurtenance or structure
that might influence design considerations;
      (4)   Profile sheets indicating the existing ground line and proposed
grades and elevations for all proposed streets, sanitary sewers, drainage
structures, drainage ditches and rear lot drainage. Elevations shall be
referenced to the United States Geological Survey datum;
      (5)   Typical sections showing the right-of-way lines, proposed pavement
widths, pavement thickness, base thickness, sub-base thickness, subgrade,
crown, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and design data when required;
      (6)   Detail sheets showing the details of manholes, inlets, catch
basins, curbs and gutters, drainage structures and any other structure or
appurtenance to be constructed, or reference made to the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois or Highway
Standards, published by the Illinois Department of Transportation;
      (7)   Design computations for storm sewer design, for special structures
and pavement designs when required and for anticipated fire flow;
      (8)   Detailed description of erosion control measures to be taken during
construction;
      (9)   Proof of application for an access permit from the County Highway
Department when access to a county highway is involved, of IDOT when access to
a state highway is involved;
      (10)   Proof of application for a 404 permit if any dredging, riprapping,
fill work or similar activities will be conducted in or around streams;
      (11)   Other specific additional information may be requested by the
village’s consulting engineer; and
      (12)   Permits for sanitary sewer and water main construction, if
required.
(Prior Code, § 150.021) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.043 CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   After receiving approval of the preliminary plan, the subdivider shall
submit three sets of construction plans to the Zoning Administrator who shall
retain one set on file and distribute the remaining as follows:
      (1)   One set to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (2)   One set to the County Superintendent of Highways when the
subdivision is located outside the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Construction plans shall be submitted a minimum of 30 calendar days
before the final plat is to be submitted for review.
   (C)   The village’s consulting engineer shall complete his or her review
within 30 calendar days after all items of information required by §
155.042 of this chapter have been submitted in writing.
   (D)   Within 30 calendar days after complete submission, the village’s
consulting engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer of approval of the
plans or of any required changes unless the review time is extended for no more
than 14 calendar days by the village’s consulting engineer in a letter to the
subdivider’s engineer listing reasons for the extension. If plans must be
resubmitted, the village’s consulting engineer shall also inform the engineer
of the number of sets of plans to be submitted.
   (E)   When construction plans are resubmitted with the required changes,
they shall be re-reviewed within 14 calendar days unless the review time is
again extended by the village’s consulting engineer in the manner set forth in
division (D) above.
   (F)   The village’s consulting engineer shall notify the subdivider’s
engineer and the Zoning Administrator of the approval of the construction
plans. Construction plans shall not be approved until proof of acquisition of a
county access permit or 404 permit, if applicable, is submitted. The Zoning
Administrator shall also send a notice of the approval to the:
      (1)   Planning Commission;
      (2)   County or Township Superintendent of Highways, if applicable; and
      (3)   Other utility companies involved.
(Prior Code, § 150.022) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
CONSTRUCTION AND BONDING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.055 EFFECT OF APPROVAL PLANS.
   Approval of the construction plans shall give the subdivider the right to
begin construction of the subdivision improvements. Construction must be
started within one year of approval of the construction plans. If construction
is not started within the year, reapproval by the village’s consulting engineer
shall be required before construction is started.
(Prior Code, § 150.023) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.056 NOTIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The village’s consulting engineer shall be notified at least 24 hours before
construction begins. Construction shall begin only after approval of
construction plans and payment of the review and inspection fee as set forth in
§
155.057 of this chapter. Whenever construction stops for 24 hours or longer,
the village’s consulting engineer shall be notified 24 hours before
construction begins again.
(Prior Code, § 150.024) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.057 REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Before starting construction of any public improvements, the
subdivider shall be assessed and shall deposit with the Zoning Administrator
for the village an amount equal to 0.7% of the estimated construction cost
(including, but not limited to, grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer,
waterline and other improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or
which benefit the subdivision generally) as approved by the village consulting
engineer. The Zoning Administrator shall cause such funds to be deposited in
the General Fund of the village.
   (B)   The foregoing fee is intended to reimburse the village for charges of
the village consulting engineer in connection with the review and inspection of
the preliminary and final plats and the construction of the public
improvements. In the event that the engineering expenses incurred by the
village are in excess of the amount initially paid by the subdivider, the
village shall bill the subdivider for the difference, and such amount shall be
paid by the subdivider prior to acceptance by the village of the final plat.
However, the subdivider shall not be entitled to any refund in the event the
fees actually charged to the village by the village consulting engineer is less
than 0.7% of the estimated construction costs.
(Prior Code, § 150.025) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.058 INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Presence of subdivider’s observer. The subdivider’s engineer shall
have a full-time, qualified resident observer present on the construction site
for the following:
      (1)   Approval of the subgrade prior to paving; and
      (2)   Continuous observation of all phases of the paving operation,
construction of sanitary sewer mains and appurtenances and construction of
storm sewer and appurtenances and construction of water mains.
   (B)   Presence of subdivider’s contractor superintendent. The subdivider’s
contractor shall have a superintendent on the job site at all times while
construction is in progress. The superintendent shall be responsible for the
entire construction procedure. In his or her absence, the superintendent shall
indicate to the subdivider’s observer, the person temporarily responsible for
the conduct of the work.
   (C)   Inspection by village’s consulting engineer. All required improvements
to be installed under the provisions of this chapter shall be checked during
the course of construction by the village’s consulting engineer. The cost of
any reinspection of any required improvement found to be faulty or not in
accordance with the approved plans and specification shall be paid by the
subdivider to the village. The testing of any concrete, asphalt, soil, other
materials or workmanship shall be done at the direction of the village and at
the expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 150.026) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.059 SECURITY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If construction has not been completed and approved by the village
consulting engineer before the final plat is submitted to the Village Board,
security in the amount equal to 125% of the estimated construction costs
(including, but not limited to, grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer,
waterline and other improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or
which benefit the subdivision generally) of the public improvements shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator in order to ensure completion of the public
improvements as required by this chapter within a reasonable length of time
without cost to the village. The form and sufficiency of security shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Attorney and the village’s consulting
engineer. Security may be in the form of a bond issued by a commercial surety
licensed to do business in the state, or it may be in the form of an
irrevocable letter of credit issued by a state or national bank of at least one
year in duration, which provides for automatic annual renewals thereof unless
at least 60 days prior to the expiration of its term or any renewal thereof,
written notice of non-renewal is sent by certified mail to the village.
   (B)   The bond or letter of credit shall by its terms secure payment of not
only the construction of the public improvements, but also of any additional
review and inspection fees charged by the village engineer and imposed by the
village pursuant to §
155.057 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.027) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.060 PARTIAL REDUCTION OF SECURITY.
   (A)   If at the time a final plat is submitted for approval or at any time
thereafter, the subdivider has already constructed a portion of the public
improvements therein, the subdivider may request that the security for the
subdivision be based on the estimated cost of the unconstructed portion, plus
10% of the estimated cost of the improvements constructed to date. This basis
for establishing the amount of the security shall be used only if the village’s
consulting engineer has inspected the completed portion of the public works and
certified that the works have been constructed in accordance with the approved
construction plans.
   (B)   No partial bond reduction shall be construed as final acceptance by
the village of any portion of the public improvements; all public improvements
constructed by the subdivider are subject to reinspection and reevaluation at
any time prior to final acceptance thereof in accordance with §
155.062 of this chapter, and the subdivider has a continuing obligation until
final acceptance to construct all public improvements to the standards of this
chapter and the construction plans. In no event prior to final acceptance shall
the security for public improvements be reduced to an amount less than 5% of
the initial estimated construction costs of all public works to be constructed
for the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 150.028) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 2010-019, passed 6-
7-2010)
§ 155.061 LENGTH SECURITY IN EFFECT; FORFEITURE.
   The security shall remain in effect until it is released by the Village
Board upon final acceptance of the public improvements. All public improvements
must be completed within two years from the date when the security was
approved. If public improvements have not been completed within said two years,
the subdivider shall forfeit the security in the amount necessary for the
village to carry out the construction or repairs so that the public
improvements meet the standards of this chapter, plus administrative costs
involved.
(Prior Code, § 150.029) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.062 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   After the village’s consulting engineer informs the village that the
following conditions have been met, the public improvements shall be accepted
by the village:
   (A)   The village’s consulting engineer has inspected the construction and
all necessary repairs and corrections and certifies that the public
improvements required by this chapter have been constructed;
   (B)   “As-built plans” have been prepared by the subdivider’s engineer and
delivered to the village’s consulting engineer;
   (C)   The village’s consulting engineer has received a signed statement of a
registered professional engineer stating that the public improvements have been
observed during construction and installed to the specifications shown on the
construction plans; and
   (D)   The improvements, such as drainage swales and the like, which are not
to be dedicated to public use but which benefit the subdivision generally, have
been built to specification shown in the construction plans.
(Prior Code, § 150.030) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 155.075 PURPOSE.
   The preliminary plan is intended to provide a detailed layout of the
proposed subdivision showing the location of public improvements, lots,
drainage and open space areas.
(Prior Code, § 150.013) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.076 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The preliminary plan shall show all required information
required on plan sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches with matching lines if
two or more sheets are necessary. The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to
the inch. All dimensions shall be to the nearest foot.
      (2)   The preliminary plan shall be consistent with the current zoning
district classification of the property.
   (B)   Information to be shown on the plan sheets shall include:
      (1)   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
the names and addresses of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider
and owner of the tract with the name and address of the contact person with
whom any notice is to be sent;
      (2)   North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions;
      (3)   A notation stating “Preliminary Plan–Not to be recorded by Recorder
of Deeds”;
      (4)   Total acreage;
      (5)   Location of all present property lines and section lines;
      (6)   The location of all streets, watercourses and other existing
features within the area to be subdivided and within 200 feet of the site;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of existing buildings and their proposed
disposition;
      (8)   The existing utilities, drainage courses and culverts including the
location and size of water mains and sewer outlets within the area to be
subdivided and on the adjacent land;
      (9)   Contours referring to the United States Geological Survey datum
with intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required
because of terrain;
      (10)   The elevation of the 100-year floodplain if any portion of the
land to be subdivided would be submerged by the flood. Adequate buildable area
must be provided above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain;
      (11)   Lot numbers;
      (12)   Proposed location of sewer mains (may be shown on a supplemental
sheet);
      (13)   The proposed storm drainage system including preliminary drainage
computations when detention or retention is likely to be needed (may be shown
on a supplemental sheet). An assessment of long-term erosion, sedimentation and
runoff changes caused by the subdivision should be included;
      (14)   Proposed location of water mains and fire hydrants;
      (15)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all proposed streets,
alleys and their associated rights-of-way;
      (16)   Location and width to the nearest foot of lots;
      (17)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all utility easements.
The subdivider shall determine the correct location of all easements to be
shown on the preliminary plan from the utility companies;
      (18)   The location of areas to be reserved for public use;
      (19)   The minimum setback requirements for the appropriate zoning
district;
      (20)   Proposed staging of final plats if more than one final plat will
be submitted based on traffic, utilities and other factors which would
determine the sequence of development with the least impact on existing
residents of the village;
      (21)   Draft of subdivision covenants relating to the requirements of
this chapter; and
      (22)   If subdivision road access is to a state, county or township road,
written approval of the access by the Illinois Department of Transportation,
County Highway Department or Township Road Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.014) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.077 PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file 12 prints of the preliminary plan of the
proposed subdivision in the office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing
fee of $100 to be deposited in the appropriate village account. The subdivision
will be reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule
established by the Planning Commission, and then by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and distribute
the prints as follows:
      (1)   Five prints to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   One print to the Superintendent of Public Works;
      (3)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (4)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
      (5)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner or IDOT,
if applicable;
      (6)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (7)   One print to the village’s fire protection district; and
      (8)   The reviewing entities shall transmit any comments or requirements
in writing to the Planning Commission within one week of receipt.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall meet and recommend to the Village Board
that it approve or disapprove the preliminary plan no later than 30 days after
the plan was filed with the Zoning Administrator. However, no review will take
place and no recommendation will be made by the Planning Commission until the
Village Board has approved the location and sketch maps. Failure by the
Planning Commission to act within 30 days shall constitute a recommendation of
disapproval of the plan.
   (D)   A location and sketch map and a preliminary plan may be submitted
simultaneously and, at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, may be
considered simultaneously and voted for approval or disapproval at the same
meeting of the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 150.015) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 2007-028, passed 7-
16-2007)
§ 155.078 COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Recommendation of approval. If the Planning Commission finds that the
preliminary plan meets the requirements of this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall forward three prints of the preliminary plan to the Village
Board, together with minutes of all meetings at which the preliminary plan was
considered. The Chairperson shall indicate its recommendation of approval on
the plan in substantially the following language:
 
The Planning Commission of the Village of Riverton recommends that this preliminary plan of subdivision be approved. This is not an approval of the final plat and is not to be recorded.
 
   By:                                                                                                
   
   Date:                                                                                              
 
 
   (B)   Recommendation of disapproval. If the Planning Commission finds that
the preliminary plan does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, it
shall inform the subdivider of its recommendation of disapproval at the meeting
when a vote is taken, followed within seven calendar days by a written
recommendation of disapproval stating the non-compliance found. Unless the
subdivider indicates its desire to amend the preliminary plan in accordance
with division (C) below, either verbally at the Planning Commission meeting
(which shall be reflected in the minutes) or in writing within seven calendar
days of receipt of the written recommendation, then three prints of the
proposed preliminary plan with the written findings of the Planning Commission
recommending disapproval shall be submitted to the Village Board, together with
minutes of all meetings at which the preliminary plan was considered. The
Chairperson shall indicate the Planning Commission’s recommendation of
disapproval on the plan in substantially the following language.
 
The Planning Commission of the Village of Riverton recommends that this preliminary plan of subdivision be disapproved.
 
   By:                                                                                                
   
   Date:                                                                                              
 
 
   (C)   Amendments.
      (1)   If the subdivider desires to amend the preliminary plan prior to
its being considered by the Village Board, the subdivider shall submit 12
prints of the amended plan to the Zoning Administrator, which shall be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the
Planning Commission. No filing fee shall be necessary if the amended
preliminary plan is filed within two calendar months of the date the Planning
Commission recommends disapproval.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit copies of the amended plan
as described in §
155.077 of this chapter, and review or proceed as indicated in that section.
(Prior Code, § 150.016) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.079 VILLAGE BOARD ACTION.
   Not later than the second regularly scheduled meeting after its receipt of
the prints of the preliminary plan recommending approval or disapproval by the
Planning Commission and of the minutes of the Planning Commission meetings
considering the preliminary plan, the Village Board shall consider approval or
disapproval of the preliminary plan. At such meeting, the subdivider may appear
and be heard by the Village Board if it so desires. The Village Board shall, by
resolution, approve or disapprove the preliminary plat, and shall appropriately
endorse the prints of the preliminary plan and, if the preliminary plan is
approved, the original of the preliminary plan, as follows:
 
[Dis]approved by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Riverton this                  day of                               ,                   .
 
                                                                                                
   Village President
   
Attest:   
                                                                                            
Village Clerk
 
 
(Prior Code, § 150.017) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.080 VALIDITY OF PRELIMINARY PLAN; REAFFIRMATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be valid for a period of three years after
Village Board approval. If the final plat has not been submitted to the
Planning Commission within said three-year period; or, if submitted, no final
plat is approved, the preliminary plan shall expire.
   (B)   If the subdivider has not submitted a final plat within three years
after preliminary plan approval, but wishes to avoid expiration of the plan,
the subdivider shall seek reaffirmation of the plan by submitting 13 prints to
the Village Clerk for review according to the review schedule established by
the Planning Commission in accordance with §§
155.077 through
155.079 of this chapter no later than 35 months after the initial Village Board
approval. If the subdivider has submitted a final plat within said three-year
period, but it is not approved during or after said three-year period, the
subdivider may avoid expiration of the preliminary plan by making the same
preliminary plan reaffirmation submission described above, provided that if the
disapproval of the final plat occurs during or after the thirty-fifth month,
the submission required shall be made within one month of such disapproval. In
such event, the review process in §§
155.077 through
155.079 of this chapter shall be followed.
   (C)   Where reaffirmation of the preliminary plan is sought, the Planning
Commission shall recommend, and the Village Board shall require, any changes in
the plan it deems necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. If the
subdivider has not resubmitted the preliminary plan with the required changes
to the Village Board within 30 days after the Village Board meeting requiring
changes or, if the resubmitted plan is disapproved, the plan shall expire at
that time or at the end of any appeal process provided for in this chapter,
whichever is later.
   (D)   A preliminary plan may be reaffirmed one time. If a final plat has not
been submitted to the Planning Commission within three years from the date of
the reaffirmation or, if submitted, is not approved, the plan shall expire.
   (E)   Final plat approval shall extend the validity of the preliminary plan
for three years from the date of final plat approval; provided that, the
Planning Commission may require any changes necessary to meet the requirements
of this chapter and, in such an event, the provisions of division (C) above
with respect to resubmission shall apply. The preliminary plan may be
reaffirmed one time after each final plat approval. If another final plat has
not been resubmitted within three years from the date of the reaffirmation, the
preliminary plan shall expire. In the event a preliminary plan expires, a
subdivider wishing to proceed with subdivision of the land involved must
resubmit a location and sketch map for review and proceed as in the case of an
original submittal.
(Prior Code, § 150.018) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
FINAL PLAT
§ 155.095 PURPOSE.
   The final plat is intended to provide the accurate location of lots,
monuments and property dedicated to public use.
(Prior Code, § 150.030) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.096 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat need not cover the entire preliminary plan area. It may
cover only the portion which the subdivider presently wishes to record and
develop in accordance with the staging approved with the preliminary plan.
   (B)   The final plat submission shall include the following information on
the plat and accompanying documents.
      (1)   Final plat. The final plat shall be drawn in black India ink on a
reproducible material to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch. Maximum
size of the plan sheets shall be 24 by 36 inches. If more than two sheets are
used, an index sheet with component areas on the remaining sheets shall be
included. The final plat shall show:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner and subdivider, engineer, land
surveyor and contact person for the subdivider;
         (b)   North point, scale and date of preparation and latest revisions;
         (c)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
         (d)   General land legal description of the plat with total acreage;
         (e)   All lots designated by numbers and other grounds designated by
names and numbers;
         (f)   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions;
         (g)   The location of all easements provided for public use, services
or utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines;
         (h)   An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to
be dedicated for public use;
         (i)   Lines of all proposed streets with their widths and names;
         (j)   The line of departure of one street from another;
         (k)   The names and widths of adjoining streets;
         (l)   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
the boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, easements and other areas for
public or private use. Linear dimensions shall be given to the nearest one-one-
hundredth of a foot;
         (m)   Radii, arcs, chords, points of tangency and central angles for
all curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners;
         (n)   If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of
this final plat by the Village of Riverton does not constitute a guarantee that
well water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or that a
suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any guarantees
are the subdivider’s responsibility;
         (o)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (p)   A notation stating any setbacks required through covenants if
the setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
      (2)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
         (a)   Letter from the village’s consulting engineer approving the
construction plans;
         (b)   Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state
or the County Highway Department, whichever applies;
         (c)   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat;
         (d)   Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat
itself;
         (e)   Certification of perpetual ownership and maintenance of drainage
areas and common areas. The certification may take the form of adequate
provisions for perpetual ownership and maintenance contained in the subdivision
covenants;
         (f)   Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas
(must be large enough to accommodate two seepage fields on each lot);
         (g)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of
this chapter; and
         (h)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land or his or her duly authorized attorney as required by the
state statutes concerning drainage.
(Prior Code, § 150.032) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.097 FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit 12 prints of the final plat of the
proposed subdivision to the Zoning Administrator with a filing fee of $100,
plus, if it has not already been paid, the review and inspection fee
established pursuant to §
155.057 of this chapter. The subdivision will be reviewed according to the
filing deadline and review schedule established by the Planning Commission. A
final plat shall be reviewed only after approval of the preliminary plan by the
Planning Commission and the Village Board and approval of the construction
plans by the village’s consulting engineer. Preliminary plans and final plats
will not be reviewed at the same meeting. However, if the preliminary plan is
being reaffirmed, the preliminary being reaffirmed and its final plat may be
reviewed and approved at the same meeting if there are no major changes
required to reaffirm the preliminary.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print and shall distribute
the final plats as follows:
      (1)   Five prints to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   One print to the Superintendent of Public Works;
      (3)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (4)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (5)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
      (6)   One print to the village’s fire protection district;
      (7)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner or IDOT,
if applicable; and
      (8)   The reviewing entities shall transmit any comments or requirements
in writing to the Planning Commission within one week of receipt.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat to determine
if it meets the requirements of this chapter and conforms to the preliminary
plan previously submitted.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of
the final plat no later than its second regularly scheduled meeting after the
plat was filed. Failure to act by the end of said second regularly scheduled
meeting shall constitute a recommendation of disapproval.
         (a)   Disapproval. If the Planning Commission finds that the final
plat does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the subdivider shall be
notified in writing of the Planning Commission’s disapproval and of the non-
compliance found.
         (b)   Approval. If the Planning Commission finds that the final plat
meets the requirements of this chapter, the following shall be printed or
stamped on the original plat and three prints and signed by the Chairperson of
the Planning Commission.
 
The final plat of this subdivision is recommended to the Village Board for approval by the Riverton Planning Commission subject to the certifications set forth in §
155.098 of
Ch. 155 of the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances.
 
By:                                                                                               
Chairperson
 
Dated:                                                                                              
 
Riverton Planning Commission
 
 
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall transmit the endorsed original plat and
two prints to the Zoning Administrator for immediate reference to the Village
Board. One print of the endorsed final plat shall remain on file with the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 150.033) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.098 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the endorsed original final plat and two prints, the
Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and shall deliver one print
to the village’s consulting engineer.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall deliver the original final plat to the
Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the documents from
the Planning Commission, along with the applicable minutes of the Planning
Commission and any reports or other written documents generated by the Planning
Commission with respect to the final plat.
   (C)   The final plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Village Board
and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the following have been
received:
      (1)   Written certification from the village’s consulting engineer that
the public improvements required by this chapter have been approved as
described in §
155.062 of this chapter or, in lieu of construction, a security has been
provided as described in §
155.059 of this chapter; and
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent.
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from the final plat approval by the Planning Commission, the existing final
plat shall expire and must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new final plat.
(Prior Code, § 150.034) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.099 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   When the requirements of §
155.096 of this chapter have been met, the Village Board may, by resolution,
approve the final plat, accept the security, if any, and authorize the Village
President to sign the plat for and in the name of the village, with the Village
Clerk attesting to it. The Village Clerk shall retain one print on file.
(Prior Code, § 150.035) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.100 RECORDING THE FINAL PLAT.
   When the final plat has been approved by the Village Board and signed by the
Village President and Clerk, the original tracing shall be recorded by the
subdivider in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. If the final
plat is not recorded within two years after approval by the Village Board, the
plat must be resubmitted to the Planning Commission to determine if any changes
in the final plat are needed to meet the requirements of this chapter. No title
to any lots shall be conveyed until the original tracing is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 150.036) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.101 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   After the village’s consulting engineer has approved the public
improvements as described in §
155.062 of this chapter, the village’s consulting engineer shall issue a letter
to the subdivider and the Village Board stating that the public improvements
meet the village’s standards.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the letter from the village’s consulting engineer the
subdivider shall execute and deliver to the village a dedication and bill of
sale for public improvements in the form exemplified by §
155.011 of this chapter. Upon receipt of the document the Village Board shall
by resolution accept the dedication and bill of sale and shall record the
dedication and resolution with the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (C)   In areas within the village’s subdivision, but outside the village’s
corporate limits, the village’s consulting engineer and County Superintendent
of Highways and Springfield Metro Sanitary District, if appropriate shall
jointly determine whether the standards of this chapter have been met. If met,
the village’s consulting engineer shall so indicate in a letter to the
subdivider and the Village Board, and the subdivider shall execute the
dedication and bill of sale exemplified by §
155.011 of this chapter, modified as necessary to indicate dedication to the
county or township of the roads, to the Springfield Metro Sanitary District of
the sanitary sewers and to the appropriate governmental entity of the water
system. The County Superintendent of Highways shall indicate in a letter to the
village’s consulting engineer approval of the streets to county standards which
shall constitute acceptance of the streets by the appropriate Township Highway
Commissioner; the Executive Director of the Springfield Metro Sanitary District
shall indicate in a letter to the village’s consulting engineer approval of
applicable sanitary sewer facilities, but acceptance of the dedication by the
Springfield Metro Sanitary District shall be by ordinance. Upon receipt of
satisfactory evidence that the public improvements are accepted, the dedication
shall be recorded by the village.
   (D)   Upon recordation of the dedication and bill of sale and resolution of
acceptance, the village shall release the security.
(Prior Code, § 150.037) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.102 EFFECT OF FINAL ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   The final acceptance by the village of public improvements and
recordation thereof shall constitute acceptance by the village of title to and
maintenance responsibilities for the public improvements. Any contractor’s
warranties in effect with respect to the public improvements shall be deemed
assigned by the subdivider to the village upon acceptance by the village.
   (B)   No acceptance by the village of public improvements shall be deemed to
be acceptance by the village of maintenance responsibility with respect to
drainage swales or common areas within the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 150.038) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.115 STATE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Unless stated otherwise in this chapter, all construction of public
improvements shall be performed in accordance with the latest revised edition
of the Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,
adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation, and the Standards
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. If an
engineering design or construction situation arises not covered by the above
cited standard specifications or in the following sections, the decision of the
village’s consulting engineer shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 150.039) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.116 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF STREETS.
   (A)   The location and width of all streets shall conform to the arterial
roadway network plan, if adopted. The minimum width of a street right-of-way
(R-O-W) shall be as shown on the arterial roadway network plan, or if not shown
on the plan, shall not be less than the following:
 
Alley                     20 feet R-O-W
Collector street          60 feet R-O-W
Existing township highway 80 feet R-O-W
Local street              50 feet R-O-W
Major arterial            110—210 feet R-O-W
Minor arterial            80—100 feet R-O-W
 
   (B)   Additional rights-of-way may be required for drainage, slope,
maintenance or other reasons not directly related to street classification.
   (C)   For subdivisions that adjoin existing streets, additional rights-of-
way shall be dedicated, as needed, to meet the above requirements. This shall
be done as follows.
      (1)   The entire additional right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street.
      (2)   One-half of the required right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on only one side of the existing street. However, in no
case shall the resulting right-of-way width be less than 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 150.040) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.117 STREET DESIGN.
   The following requirements shall be incorporated into the design of all
streets.
   (A)   Vertical alignment; grades. The maximum grade on a major or minor
arterial shall be 5%. The maximum grade on all other streets shall be 8%. The
minimum grade on all streets shall be 0.40%. All street grades shall be subject
to the approval of the village’s consulting engineer.
   (B)   Horizontal alignment.
      (1)   Horizontal curves. When a centerline deflection angle is greater
than one degree, the following curves shall be required in the street: major
and minor arterials and collector streets shall have a minimum centerline
radius of 300 feet and a minimum length of curve of 100 feet; arterials and
collectors having a design speed and/or expected posted speed greater than 30
mph shall be consistent with the latest revision of the horizontal curvature
requirements of ASSHTO, A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets
for the appropriate roadway classification; all other types of streets shall
have a minimum centerline radius of 100 feet. The pavement in all cases shall
be wide enough to allow the movement of a WB-50 Design vehicle, as described in
the Illinois Department of Transportation Design Manual.
      (2)   Intersections. Intersections of major and minor arterials and
collectors with roadways of the same classes shall not be closer than one
quarter of a mile from any other such functionally classed roadways’
intersections. These intersections shall be located at the quarter mile grid
points.
      (3)   Street offsets. Street centerline offsets shall not be less than
125 feet, unless otherwise warranted to the satisfaction of the village’s
consulting engineer.
      (4)   Curb corners. All curb corners shall have a minimum radius of 25
feet.
   (C)   Pavement. All local and collector streets shall be installed in
accordance with the following pavement standards.
      (1)   Subgrade. At the option of the subdivider, 12 inches lime
stabilized soil per latest IDOT Standard shall be employed within the street
area (omit curb area).
      (2)   Asphalt; pavement alternate.
         (a)   Alternates.
            1.   Alternate A. If the subgrade is treated as in above, the
pavement design will consist of four inches of bituminous concrete binder
course, Class I (A Binder) and one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete
surface course, Class I (gradation of coarse aggregate to be CA 16).
            2.   Alternate B. If the subgrade is not lime treated, the pavement
shall consist five inches bituminous concrete binder course, Class I (A Binder)
and two inches of bituminous concrete surface course Class I (gradation of
coarse aggregate to be CA 16).
         (b)   Subgrades. All subgrades shall be inspected by the village’s
consulting engineer and, if he or she deems necessary, proof rolled prior to
paving.
         (c)   Increases. If the street is a minor arterial, the above binder
and surface shall be increased to six inches and two inches for the lime
treated and eight inches and two inches respectively for the non-lime-treated
subgrades.
      (3)   Concrete; pavement alternate.
         (a)   Regardless if the subgrade is treated, a minimum of six inches
unreinforced portland cement concrete pavement according to § 408 of IDOT specs
shall be employed. All transverse contraction joints shall be 15 feet and
sealed per ASTM D3405.
         (b)   If the street is a minor arterial, the pavement shall be
increased to eight inches. All transverse contraction joints shall be 20 feet
and sealed per ASTM D3405.
      (4)   Pavement design.
         (a)   All major arterial pavements shall be designed in accordance
with the requirements contained in the latest, revised edition of the IDOT
Design Manual and shall be designed for a 20-year period. The minimum
requirements listed in the tables of the Design Manual shall govern at all
times.
         (b)   A state bearing ratio of 3.0 (IBR = 3.0) shall be used in
pavement design unless the subdivider’s engineer submits soil tests justifying
a different IBR.
         (c)   Vehicular traffic volumes and vehicle classification percentages
used in the design shall be approved by the village’s consulting engineer.
         (d)   In all cases, the minimum street will govern if the above major
arterial design is less.
   (D)   Pavement width.
      (1)   All streets shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in
accordance with the following general guidelines, which are subject in every
case to the discretion of the village.
 
Type of Street   Pavement Width (Edge of Pavement to Edge of Pavement)
Collector street 27 feet minimum
Local street     27 feet minimum
Major arterial   40 feet minimum and as required by IDOT
Minor arterial   32 feet minimum
 
      (2)   The minimum pavement width shall be 27 feet from the edge of
pavement to edge of pavement, not including the curb and gutter. Different
widths may be used depending on the anticipated traffic volumes and parking
demand. These widths of pavement shall be determined by the Planning Commission
and the village’s consulting engineer in consultation with the engineer for the
subdivider. If a pavement width narrower than the above stated minimum results
from this consultation, the subdivider shall install “No Parking” signs at his
or her expense.
   (E)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   The standard curb and gutter required adjacent to flexible pavement
shall be a mountable type constructed portland cement concrete with the
following dimensions: 24 inches wide, eight inches thick on the front face
(pavement side), ten inches thick on the back face, seven inches thick at
centerline (flow line), and a ten-inch radius in the flow line. The curb and
gutter adjacent to concrete pavement, if poured monolithically, may be limited
to the thickness of the pavement.
      (2)   In subdivisions proposed to have streets with an anticipated daily
traffic volume of 2,500 or more, a barrier type curb and gutter similar to Type
B6.18, as described in the Illinois Department of Transportation Highway
Standards, shall be used. Other locations where a barrier type curb and gutter
are required shall be determined by the engineer for the subdivision and the
village’s consulting engineer.
   (F)   Pavement crown. The minimum crown used on all pavements shall be one-
quarter inch per foot measured from the edge of the pavement to the centerline
of the street.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. Local streets that are also cul-de-sac streets
shall be no more than 600 feet long unless necessitated by topography in which
case they shall be no longer than 1,000 feet unless provision is made for an
interim turnaround with a radius sufficient to accommodate emergency vehicles
and/or a median entrance. (See division (I) below.) A turnaround shall be
provided at the enclosed end having an outside roadway diameter of at least 86
feet edge-to-edge of pavement and a street right-of-way diameter of 110 feet.
No obstructions shall be permitted in the cul-de-sac turnaround.
   (H)   Stub streets. Access shall be provided to adjoining property not yet
subdivided. Proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
such unsubdivided property. At the end of all temporary stub streets, a
barricade meeting the provisions of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices shall be installed by the subdivider. Stub streets in excess of
250 feet shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac with an outside roadway
diameter of at least 90 feet. The type of construction shall be determined by
the village’s consulting engineer. The subdivider shall dedicate a temporary
easement to the appropriate street authority in the amount needed in excess of
the normally required right-of-way for the temporary turnaround. When the
street is extended in the future, the extra turnaround pavement shall be
removed and curb and gutters and sidewalks constructed by the subdivider
developing the adjacent property.
   (I)   Multiple access. Any area of development containing 70 or more single-
family lots (or equivalent population) shall be served by two functioning
points of access. Where higher densities of development are proposed, a divided
type entrance roadway may suffice with a median of adequate width to ensure
continued emergency access lanes on one side. Depending on location and height
of nearby poles or trees, the required median width shall range between 12 and
30 feet. This type of roadway construction is intended to accommodate higher
density developments and not to lengthen the overall length of a cul-de-sac.
   (J)   Restriction of access. When a subdivision or a portion of it adjoins a
major or minor arterial, no lot shall have direct access to the arterial. The
lot shall have adequate depth for screen planting on the portion of the lot
contiguous to the major or minor arterial.
   (K)   Street names and street signs.
      (1)   A proposed street that is in alignment with and/or joins an
existing named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In no case
shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing street
within the plat jurisdiction of this chapter. The use of the suffix “street”,
“avenue”, “boulevard”, “driveway”, “place”, “court” or similar description
shall not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with this
requirement.
      (2)   Street names signs shall be erected at all intersections within the
village’s jurisdiction at the expense of the subdivider and shall be subject to
the specifications of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
   (L)   Private streets. There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. Every subdivision lot shall be served from a publicly dedicated
street.
   (M)   Alleys. Alleys are not recommended in residential subdivisions unless
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
   (N)   Ramps. Where sidewalks cross a barrier type curb and gutter as
described in division (E) above, ramps shall be constructed to accommodate the
disabled. These ramps shall be constructed to IDOT standards. Inlets for storm
drainage shall not be located so that a pedestrian way will be interrupted by
the inlet grates. Other locations where these ramps are required shall be
determined by the village’s consulting engineer.
   (O)   Typical street section.
   (P)   Medians and islands.
      (1)   Where medians or islands are proposed they shall be constructed
with barrier curbing. All medians and islands shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider and/or a subdivision association to maintain. No sign may be
installed in the median which blocks the sight distance at the intersection. If
such a sign is to be installed, detailed plans for the sign shall be submitted
with the construction plans for approval. In no case shall an island or median
contain any other sign or structure, except as may be placed for traffic
control under the direction of the village’s consulting engineer.
      (2)   The subdivider or subdivision association may landscape medians or
islands. Ground cover may not exceed a maximum height of 12 inches. Any
additional living plant material must be maintained to allow visibility across,
over or through medians and islands at a height of three to ten feet above the
adjacent roadway pavements.
(Prior Code, § 150.041) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.118 LOT AND BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Size of lots. Minimum lot sizes shall be the minimum for the
applicable zoning district of Riverton, except when a private sewage disposal
system is necessary. When a private sewage disposal system will be used for any
length of time, lots shall be a minimum of 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot arrangement.
      (1)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
substantially radial to curved street lines. However, for purposes of solar
orientation, side lot lines need not be at right angles to straight street
lines or radial to curved street lines; provided that, side lot lines run
within 20 degrees east or west from due north to due south. If side lot lines
are being varied for solar orientation, layout and building setbacks shall also
be oriented with their long axis running from east to west, with a possible
variation of 20 degrees to the southwest or 20 degrees to the southeast.
      (2)   Each lot shall front upon a public street.
      (3)   Flag lots shall be permitted only if the Planning Commission
determines that no public health and safety problems or additional costs or
difficulties providing municipal services will result.
      (4)   Through lots shall be permitted only when access is prohibited to
one street as described in §
155.117(J) of this chapter.
      (5)   All lots must contain sufficient buildable area.
   (C)   Sizes of blocks. Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet, nor more than
1,200 feet, in length measured along the greatest dimension of the enclosed
block area. In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Planning Commission may
require one or more public crosswalks with a right-of-way of not less than ten
feet in width to extend entirely across the block at locations deemed necessary
at intervals not closer than 400 feet.
   (D)   Survey monuments. All survey monuments shall be located and be made of
the appropriate material as required by state law.
   (E)   Lot grading.
      (1)   Trees that cannot be saved, stumps, boulders and similar items
shall be removed.
      (2)   All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography
of the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one
and one-half feet above the high water elevation.
      (3)   All building lots shall be graded or have natural slopes that will
properly allow surface drainage to flow away from the principal structures to
be located on the lot.
      (4)   Grading in the subdivision shall provide alternate drainage ways
for the purpose of carrying water away from homes and preventing damage during
periods of heavy rainfall.
(Prior Code, §150.042) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996; Am. Ord. 17-002, passed
2-6-17)
§ 155.119 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   During construction of public improvements, measures shall be taken to
control erosion and sedimentation to ensure that sediment will not be
transported from the site by a storm event of two-year frequency or less. The
erosion and sediment control plan shall include measures to stabilize and
protect disturbed areas, keep runoff velocities low, retain sediment on site
and protect disturbed areas from runoff. The location, type and configuration
of controls such as swales, berms, dams, sediment basins and release mechanisms
shall be included with the construction plans.
   (B)   Temporary or permanent soil stabilization measures, whichever is
applicable, shall be applied within 15 days after final grading to all areas
where the soil has been disturbed or the vegetative cover removed. Seeding
mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seed bed preparation, expected
seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer application and kind and
quantity of mulch for temporary or permanent vegetative control measures shall
be included with the construction plans.
   (C)   An IEPA storm water permit shall be obtained by the subdivider as
required by law.
(Prior Code, § 150.043) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.120 UTILITY EASEMENTS; LOCATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility easements.
      (1)   Utility easements shall be provided along front, rear or side lot
lines for the purpose of erecting and maintaining one or more of the following
facilities: storm sewers, sanitary sewers, surface drainage, gas mains,
underground electric lines, telephone lines, cable TV and such other utilities
reasonably required for an urban structure.
      (2)   Easements shall be a minimum of 15 feet in width. A utility may be
located in the street right-of-way if the respective company so desires and
appropriate permits have been obtained.
      (3)   Alternate locations for various utilities shall be decided upon by
the appropriate utility companies, subject to the approval of the village’s
consulting engineer. In no case shall streets, permanent buildings or other
human-made improvements that obstruct surface drainage be placed on rear or
side lot easements.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to notify all utility
companies in writing when the land to be developed has been graded in
accordance with the construction plans and is ready for installation of a given
utility.
   (B)   Location of utilities.
      (1)   Utilities (sewers, electric, water and gas), whenever possible,
shall be located in the public right-of-way or front lot easement in the
following manner: water and electric lines shall be located on the south and
east sides; sanitary sewer and gas lines shall be located on the north and west
sides. In some cases, however, electric lines may also be located on the north
and west sides.
      (2)   The placement of storm sewers or electric lines in the rear of a
lot is not acceptable unless circumstances determined by the village’s
consulting engineer require their placement in the rear, in which case the
following easement diagrams indicate placement:
         (a)   Ten-foot easements. When an easement will not include sanitary
sewer or surface drainage systems, a ten-foot easement width shall be
sufficient and the utilities shall be located as follows:
         (b)   Fifteen-foot easements. When an easement will include either a
sanitary sewer system or a surface drainage system, but not both systems, a 15-
foot easement shall be required and the utilities shall be located as follows:
         (c)   Twenty-foot easements. When a utility easement will include both
a sanitary sewer system and a surface drainage system, a 20-foot easement shall
be required and the utilities shall be located as follows:
   [Image follows on next page]
         (d)   Side yard easements. When sanitary or storm sewers are located
in the rear of a lot, a ten-foot easement in the side yard shall be required
from the street right-of-way to each manhole or inlet.
(Prior Code, § 150.044) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.121 SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be developed with adequate surface drainage.
Surface water drainage improvements shall consist of storm sewers and/or open
channels, inlets, catch basins and manholes designed and constructed to conform
with standards established by the village’s consulting engineer and shall
adequately drain the area being developed, including drainage from other areas
which naturally drain through the areas being developed. Inlets and/or catch
basins shall be spaced so that water will not flow overland more than 500 feet
and shall be located so that, in no case, will water be required to flow across
a street. Water shall not be retained outside the center ten feet of drainage
utility easement. Inlets covered by a metal grate shall have a grate of a type
that will not be hazardous to a bicyclist.
   (B)   If, as the result of subdivision development, surface water is
deposited in existing roadside ditches in quantities exceeding their capacity,
the developer shall improve the ditches and replace culverts as needed to
handle the flow.
   (C)   Unless engineering evidence is presented to the village’s consulting
engineer warranting exceptions, storm sewers which will drain 20 acres or less
for residential development shall be designed and constructed to meet the
following criteria:
      (1)   Major and minor arterials: ten-year storm frequency; and
      (2)   All other areas: five-year storm frequency.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide
grade control for rear lot drainage to each lot owner. Swales are not public
works which shall be dedicated to and accepted by the village; nevertheless, no
construction surety shall be fully released until the village’s consulting
engineer has approved the swales in the subdivision. The village’s consulting
engineer will not approve any swale until adequate turf and/or grass has been
established at the elevations set forth in the construction plans. Upon
approval by the village’s consulting engineer, it shall be the lot owner’s
responsibility to maintain the drainage course and to keep it free from
features that restrict natural drainage. All swales less than 1% in grade shall
have either of the following:
         (a)   An eight-inch minimum underdrain pipe that allows water seepage
as indicated on the drawing entitled “Detail of Yard Underdrain” set out at
Appendix A at the end of this chapter; or
         (b)   A portland cement concrete swale, five inches thick, as
indicated on the drawing entitled “Paved Ditch Detail” set out at
Appendix B at the end of this chapter.
      (2)   End sections shall employ a grated cover to keep animals or
children from trying to enter the system.
   (E)   The controlled release and storage of excess storm water runoff shall
be required in combination for all of the areas indicated on the preliminary
plan.
      (1)   The controlled release of storm water runoff shall not exceed the
release or discharge rate which existed at the site prior to development. This
rate shall be known as the predeveloped discharge rate. In the case of multiple
discharge locations, no location shall discharge at a rate higher than the
predeveloped discharge rate for that location under any set of conditions. The
controlled release rate in any case shall not exceed the rated capacity of the
existing natural downstream outlet channel or storm sewer system as determined
by the village’s consulting engineer. The rate at which storm water runoff is
transported into a designated storage area may be as determined by the design
engineer and is unrestricted.
      (2)   A natural or surface channel system shall be designed with adequate
capacity to convey the storm water runoff from all tributary upstream areas
through the development. This bypass channel shall be designed to carry the
peak rate of runoff from a 50-year storm assuming all storm sewers are blocked
and that the upstream areas are fully developed and have been saturated with
antecedent rainfall. No habitable structures shall be constructed within this
channel, however, streets and parking or playground areas and utility easements
shall be considered compatible primary uses.
      (3)   (a)   Storm water runoff capacity of detention facilities and
discharge rates from such facilities shall be calculated by analyzing volume
and rate of runoff during pre- and post-development conditions for the ten-year
and the 100-year recurrence intervals.
         (b)   Storage capacity and discharge rates shall be based on the
maximum calculated volume and peak flow of storm waters, respectively.
         (c)   Storage facilities shall be designed using the soil conservation
service (SCS) method of calculating runoff discharge rate and total volume of
storage. The rational method of calculating runoff may be used for subdivisions
less than 20 acres.
         (d)   The storage volume shall be provided for the fully developed
watershed that is tributary to the area designated for detention purposes. The
control structure for discharge shall maintain the release rate at or below the
rate established in division (E)(1) above for all rainfall events of 100 years
or less frequency.
      (4)   (a)   Detention reservoirs or any bottom storm water storage areas
shall be designed to serve a secondary purpose for recreation, open space or
other types of uses that will not be adversely affected by occasional or
intermittent flooding. A method of carrying the low flow through these areas
shall be provided in addition to a system of drains, and both shall be provided
with a positive gravity outlet to a natural channel or other storm sewer
facility with adequate capacity. The combination of storage of the water from a
100-year storm and the design release rate shall not result in a storage
duration in excess of 72 hours. Maximum depths of planned storm water storage
shall not exceed four feet unless the existing natural ground contours and
other conditions lend themselves to greater storage depth, which shall be
approved by the village’s consulting engineer. Minimum grades for turf areas
shall be 0.6% and maximum slopes shall be 10%. Storage area side slopes shall
be kept as close to the natural land contours as practical and a 10% slope or
less shall be used whenever possible. If slopes greater than 10% are necessary
to meet storage requirements or area restrictions, approval shall be obtained
from the village’s consulting engineer, and suitable erosion control shall be
provided in addition to the protection required to ensure public health and
safety.
         (b)   Outlet control structures shall be designed as simply as
possible and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for proper
operation. Each storm water storage area shall be provided with a method of
emergency overflow in the event that a storm in excess of the 100-year return
frequency storm occurs. The emergency overflow facility shall be designed to
function without maintenance and/or attention and shall become part of the
natural or surface channel system described in division (E)(2) above. Hydraulic
calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design features. Both
outlet control structures and emergency overflow facilities shall be designed
and constructed to fully protect the public health and safety. Storm water
runoff velocities shall be kept to a minimum and turbulent conditions at an
outfall control structure will not be permitted without complete protection for
the public safety. The use of restrictive fences shall be kept to a minimum and
shall be used only as a last resort when no other method is feasible.
      (5)   Retention reservoir or wet bottom storm water storage areas shall
be designed with all of the items required for detention reservoir storage
areas; except that, a low flow conduit and a system of drains with a positive
gravity outlet shall not be required. However, the following additional
conditions shall be complied with.
         (a)   Water surface area shall not exceed one-tenth of the tributary
drainage area.
         (b)   Shoreline protection shall be provided to prevent erosion from
wave action.
         (c)   Minimum normal water depth shall be four feet. If fish are to be
used to keep the pond clean, a minimum of one-fourth of the pond area shall be
a minimum of ten feet deep.
         (d)   Facilities shall be available, if possible, to allow the pond
level to be lowered by gravity flow for cleaning purposes and shoreline
maintenance.
         (e)   Control structures for storm water release shall be designed to
operate at full capacity with only a minor increase in the water surface water
level. Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design
features.
         (f)   Aeration facilities to prevent pond stagnation shall be
provided, if necessary. Design calculations to substantiate the effectiveness
of these aeration facilities shall be submitted with construction plans.
Agreement for the perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities
shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the village’s consulting engineer and
Planning Commission.
      (6)   Where developments form only a portion of the watershed or contain
portions of several watersheds, the requirements for providing storage shall be
based upon that proportion of the area being developed as compared to the total
watershed tributary to the storage area. Compensating storage will be
acceptable whenever it is justified and feasible. As a watershed is developed
with a series of storm water storage facilities, due consideration will be
given for calculations of the allowable release rate and capacity of the
natural or surface channel system as described in division (E)(2) above.
      (7)   Where development of a property presents the threat of flooding or
damage by flash flood runoff to downstream residents, the facilities for storm
water runoff control shall be constructed prior to any earthmoving or drainage
construction on the project site.
      (8)   The construction of the storm water control systems shall be
accomplished as part of the cost of land development. If the amount of storage
capacity can be increased to provide certain benefits to the surrounding
properties, negotiations for public participation in the cost of such
development may be feasible.
      (9)   The ability to retain and maximize the ground water recharge
capacity of the area being developed is encouraged. Design of the storm water
runoff control system as provided in division (E)(4) above shall give due
consideration to providing ground water recharge to compensate for the
reduction in the percolation that occurs when the ground surface is paved and/
or roofed over. The use of natural gravel deposits for the lower portions of
storm runoff storage areas, the flattening of drainage slopes and the retention
of existing topography are samples of possible recharge methods.
      (10)   During the construction phase of land development, facilities
shall be provided by appropriate stockpile design, to prevent the erosion and
washing away of the earth. Silting of downstream areas shall be prevented
through the strategic use of silting basins, sodding of runoff channels and by
limiting the period of time during which the earth is stripped of vegetation.
      (11)   Final engineering plans shall show complete details for all items
covered in this section. Plans, specifications and all calculations for storm
water runoff control and storm sewers shall be submitted for review and
approval as part of the construction plan submittal or as part of the site plan
submittal for large scale developments.
(Prior Code, § 150.045) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.122 BACKFILL OVER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Where an underground utility is to be placed in an area which has a
permanent type street or sidewalk surface, or upon which such a surface is to
be constructed within a period of one year, the backfill above the utility or
in case of sewers, above the top of the granular cradle, to the level of the
bottom of the permanent type pavement shall be made. This material will be in
all areas where utility trenches cross the pavement subgrade, except in areas
which will be lime treated or areas where rock will be used to stabilize the
subgrade. The backfill shall be IDOT CA-6 or CA-7 crushed stone. Boiler slag
will not be permitted.
   (B)   As an alternate, the use of “flowable fill” will be permitted. This
mix shall consist of a lean concrete mix with no less than 50 pounds of cement
per cubic yard, 200 to 600 pounds of fly ash, 2,000 to 3,000 pounds of fine
aggregate and 35 to 65 gallons of water. Minimum 28-day compressive strength
shall not be less than 150 psi.
   (C)   In areas not now subject to vehicular traffic, nor in the opinion of
the village’s consulting engineer likely to be within a period of one year,
backfill may be made with selected excavation material which is free from clods
and stones; provided, such trench backfill is adequately jetted from the bottom
up completely filling the trench immediately after backfilling.
(Prior Code, § 150.046) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.123 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks at least four feet wide and four inches thick shall be
constructed on both sides of each street at least four and one-half feet from
and at least four inches above the backs of the curbs. Sidewalks shall be
located one foot inside the street right-of-way. Sidewalks shall be constructed
along all streets bordering the subdivision. All sidewalks along arterials and
minor arterials shall be five feet wide. All walks at corner lots shall be
extended out to gutter(s) either by a common extension at the center or
continue at right angles to the gutter.
(Prior Code, § 150.047) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.124 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   When a subdivision is located within the service area of a public
sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout the
entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately each building lot.
         (a)   Public sanitary sewers shall be located in the north or west
boulevard (between curb and sidewalk) within the street right-of-way or in a
15-foot easement behind the sidewalk within the house setback area. Parallel
sewer lines along the street may be used. Sanitary sewers shall not be located
in the rear yard.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the entrance of storm water or
ground water to the sanitary sewers be permitted.
         (c)   All sanitary sewer collections and disposal systems shall comply
with the ordinances of the village and the requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   Acceptable sanitary pipe materials shall be acceptable to the
village consulting engineer and shall consist of:
         (a)   PVC composite sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D 2680 with solvent
weld or gasketed joints;
         (b)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D 3034,
type PSM for sizes four inches to 15 inches and ASTM F-679 for sizes 18 inches
to 27 inches. Minimum acceptable SDR shall be 35; or
         (c)   PVC corrugated sewer pipe with a smooth interior. This pipe
shall conform to the requirements of ASTM Standard F-794 and Uni-bell Uni-P-9.
Pipe shall be made of PVC material having a cell classification of 124-54-B as
defined in ASTM D 1784. Pipe stiffness at 5% deflection shall be 46 psi for all
sizes (eight inches to 30 inches) when tested in accordance with ASTM 2412. PVC
pipe meeting ASTM F-942 is not acceptable.
      (3)   All sanitary laterals will be marked by using a two-inch by four-
inch (painted orange) board four feet above the ground to denote location of
service lines.
   (B)   Private sewage disposal systems. Where no public sanitary sewerage
system is available (see § 155.027(A)(1) of this chapter), individual sanitary
disposal systems shall be installed to service individual dwelling units
according to conditions set forth in §
155.027 of this chapter. These sanitary disposal systems shall be installed in
accordance with the latest revised edition of the State Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and private sewage disposal code promulgated by the State
Department of Public Health and the applicable ordinance of the village.
Sufficient area shall be provided to accommodate two seepage fields.
(Prior Code, § 150.048) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.125 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Public water supply.
      (1)   Water mains not less than six inches in diameter shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision. Larger diameter pipes may be
required by the village to provide for future transmission needs, in which
case, the village shall pay any additional costs.
      (2)   Every water supply system shall be designed in such a manner as to
provide an area fire flow meeting the requirements established by the village’s
fire protection district. Water mains larger than six inches in diameter shall
be installed at the subdivider’s expense if needed to provide the area fire
flow required by the insurance services office guild for determination of
required fire flow. A minimum of 1,000 gallons per minute with a residual
pressure of 20 pounds per square inch shall be required. Fire hydrants with
shut-off valves at each hydrant shall be installed throughout the entire system
at maximum intervals of 400 feet or less. All fire hydrants shall be three
nozzle hydrants with threads as specified by the village’s fire protection
district and shall have flow characteristics similar to those of a five and
one-fourth inch hydrant valve.
   (B)   Private water supply. When a public water supply is not feasible and
the subdivision is outside the corporate limits of the village, a private well
may be used. Wells shall be constructed according to the Illinois Water Well
Pump Installation Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.049) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.126 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION.
   The underground electric distribution system shall be installed on utility
easements along front lot lines. Transformers shall normally be placed on every
other lot line with secondary conductors and distribution pedestals installed
on the opposite side of the street. In some instances, transformers may be
installed on both sides of the street. All primary and secondary cables shall
be in conduit.
(Prior Code, § 150.050) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.127 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lights shall be installed along public streets in the village by the
subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 150.051) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.128 PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably
located and of adequate size for playgrounds and parks for local or
neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
   (B)   When a proposed school, neighborhood park, electric substation, water
storage tank, recreation area or public access to water frontage shown in the
official plan, if adopted, is located in whole or part in a proposed
subdivision, the Village Board may require, as a condition of final plat
approval, that such space within the subdivision be reserved and not developed
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of such final plat approval.
Within the one-year period, the appropriate public agency may acquire the
reserved property in the manner provided by law. If the reserved site is not
acquired and no legal action is filed within the one-year period, the
reservation shall become void and the site previously reserved may then be used
for other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 150.052) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
MINOR SUBDIVISION
§ 155.140 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A minor subdivision is the creation of a total of up to four lots
(counting the original tract from which the lots are created) which front along
a public road.
   (B)   The minor subdivision is designed to allow the sale of said lots
without the delay and expense of the conventional subdivision process.
(Prior Code, § 150.053) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.141 LOCATION MAP.
   (A)   Location map submission requirements. The location map shall consist
of data added to an existing base map of a suitable scale covering an area of
at least a one-mile radius from the tract proposed for development. The
location map shall show the following information:
      (1)   Title of proposed subdivision;
      (2)   North point, scale and date;
      (3)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
engineer and registered land surveyor with the name and address of the contact
person to whom any notice is to be sent;
      (4)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
      (5)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided;
      (6)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided;
      (7)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (8)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (9)   Method of water supply;
      (10)   Electric service provider;
      (11)   Fire protection district; and
      (12)   School district.
   (B)   Location map review process.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit ten prints of the location map to the
Zoning Administrator according to the filing deadline and review schedule
established by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print and distribute the
remainder as follows:
         (a)   Two prints to the Planning Commission;
         (b)   One print to the Superintendent of Public Works;
         (c)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
         (d)   One print to the Village Clerk;
         (e)   One print to the village’s fire protection district;
         (f)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways or IDOT, if
applicable;
         (g)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
         (h)   One print to the County Soil and Water Conservation District;
and
         (i)   One print to the appropriate school district.
      (3)   The entities listed in division (B)(2) above shall transmit their
comments on suitability of the site in writing to the Planning Commission
within one week of receipt.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall review the suitability of the site
based on comments received and the suitability criteria outlined in §
155.027 of this chapter. The Planning Commission shall either approve or
disapprove the location map based on the suitability of the site within 30 days
after the plan was filed. If the location map is disapproved, the owners shall
be informed in writing of the non-compliance found. The Commission’s decision
may be appealed to the Village Board as described herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.054) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.142 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Final plat submission requirements.
      (1)   The final plat shall be consistent with the current zoning district
classification of the property.
      (2)   The following shall be submitted on a plan drawn to a scale of no
more than 100 feet to the inch or in accompanying documents:
         (a)   North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, engineer and
registered land surveyor;
         (c)   Total acreage;
         (d)   Lot numbers;
         (e)   Existing utilities and drainage courses within and adjacent to
the site;
         (f)   Location of all present property lines, section lines, streets,
building and watercourses within the area and within 100 feet of the area;
         (g)   Location of proposed lots, setback lines and utility easements;
         (h)   Contours referring to the United States Geological Survey datum
with intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required
because of terrain. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission,
in its sole discretion. Any such waiver shall be noted on the final plat and
signed by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission;
         (i)   If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of
this final plat by the Village of Riverton does not constitute a guarantee that
well water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or that a
suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any guarantees
are the subdivider’s responsibility;
         (j)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (k)   A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the
setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
   (B)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
      (1)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land, or his or her duly authorized attorney, as required by state
statutes concerning drainage;
      (2)   Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat
itself;
      (3)   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat;
      (4)   Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas (must
be large enough to accommodate two seepage fields) on each lot; and
      (5)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.055) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.143 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file ten prints of the minor subdivision in the
office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing fee of $100 to be deposited to
the appropriate village account. The subdivision will be reviewed according to
the filing deadline and review schedule established by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and shall
distribute the prints as follows:
      (1)   Three prints to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   One print to the Superintendent of Public Works;
      (3)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (4)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways, if applicable;
      (5)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner or IDOT,
if applicable;
      (6)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (7)   One print to the village’s fire protection district; and
      (8)   The reviewing entities shall transmit any comments or requirements
to the Planning Commission within seven calendar days of receipt.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval no
later than 30 days after the plan was filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Failure to act within 30 days shall constitute a recommendation of disapproval.
      (1)   Disapproval. If the Planning Commission finds that the minor
subdivision plat does not meet the requirements of this chapter, it shall
specify its disapproval in writing and state the non-compliance found.
      (2)   Approval. If the Planning Commission finds that the minor
subdivision plat meets the requirements of this chapter, the subdivider shall
submit the original and three prints to the Planning Commission. The following
shall be printed or stamped on the original plat and prints and signed by the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission:
 
The plat of this subdivision is recommended to the Village Board for approval by the Riverton Planning Commission subject to the
certifications set forth in §
155.141 of the Village of Riverton Code of Ordinances.
 
By:                                                                     Chairperson
 
Dated:                            
 
Riverton Planning Commission
 
 
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall transmit the endorsed original plat and
two prints to the Zoning Administrator for immediate reference to the Village
Board. One print of the endorsed minor subdivision plat shall remain on file in
the Planning Commission office.
(Prior Code, § 150.056) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.144 SUBMISSION OF MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT TO THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the endorsed original minor subdivision plat and two
prints, the Zoning Administrator shall retain one print on file and shall
deliver one print to the village’s consulting engineer.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall deliver the original minor subdivision
plat to the Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the
documents from the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The minor subdivision plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the
Village Board and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the
following have been received:
      (1)   Written certification from the village’s consulting engineer that
the plat has been reviewed and any required public improvements have been
approved as described in §
155.062 of this chapter or, in lieu of construction, a security has been
provided as described in §
155.059 of this chapter; and
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent.
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from Planning Commission approval, the existing approvals and recommendations
shall expire and the plat must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new minor
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 150.057) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.145 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   When the requirements of §
155.144 of this chapter have been met, the Village Board may, by resolution,
approve the minor subdivision plat and authorize the Village President to sign
the plat for and in the name of the village, with the Village Clerk attesting
to it. The Village Clerk shall retain one print on file.
(Prior Code, § 150.058) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.146 RECORDING THE MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   When the minor subdivision plat has been approved by the Village Board
and signed by the Village President and Village Clerk, the original tracing
shall be recorded by the subdivider in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
the county.
   (B)   If the minor subdivision plat is not recorded within two years after
approval by the Village Board, the plat must be resubmitted to the Planning
Commission to determine if any changes in the plat are needed to meet the
requirements of this chapter. No title to any lots shall be conveyed until the
original tracing is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 150.059) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.147 LIMITATIONS ON MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Only one minor subdivision shall be allowed for any parcel of record
existing 12-18-1973. If three lots have been created from a parcel of record
after said date, all additional divisions at a later time shall follow
conventional subdividing procedures.
(Prior Code, § 150.060) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.160 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The large scale development site plan is intended to provide a
detailed layout of buildings, utilities, other improvements and construction
details to ensure that village public health and safety standards and
subdivision and zoning requirements are met.
   (B)   (1)   The permitted uses and densities and other requirements of the
site’s existing zoning district shall be met.
      (2)   However, yard and other bulk requirements can be varied within the
site if more than one building is proposed.
(Prior Code, § 150.061) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.161 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The site plan shall include the following information at a scale of no more
than 100 feet to the inch:
   (A)   Title of the development;
   (B)   North point, scale and date;
   (C)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider and
engineer. A contact person should be designated;
   (D)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
   (E)   Acreage;
   (F)   On-site vehicular circulation;
   (G)   Parking;
   (H)   Sidewalks;
   (I)   Sewer distribution;
   (J)   Site grading;
   (K)   Storm drainage;
   (L)   Location of structures;
   (M)   Water distribution and size of mains;
   (N)   Location of fire hydrants and valves;
   (O)   Street profiles and typical cross-sections;
   (P)   Yard setbacks;
   (Q)   Landscape plans;
   (R)   Location of outdoor lighting and signs;
   (S)   Traffic analysis if more than 200 cars are to be accommodated on site;
and
   (T)   Seal and signature of a registered professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 150.062) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.162 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The plans must comply with all standards and requirements of
applicable village codes including land subdivision regulations, zoning
ordinances, arterial roadway network plan, if adopted, and any Building,
Housing and Fire Codes.
   (B)   The following exceptions shall be observed.
      (1)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   For all residential developments:
 
Front yard 30 feet
Rear yard  20 feet
Side yard  20 feet each
 
         (b)   For all commercial and industrial districts:
 
Front yard 20 feet
Rear yard  15 feet
Side yard  15 feet each
 
         (c)   Yard area shall be open area and not be used for parking.
         (d)   When a commercial or industrial development abuts or adjoins a
residential district on a side or rear yard, an additional ten feet shall be
required for each yard that abuts or adjoins a residential district. The
proposed commercial or industrial development shall be screened on each side
abutting or adjoining a residential district by a wall, opaque fence or densely
planted compact hedge not less than five feet in height.
         (e)   For all developments, the front yard shall be that area fronting
a public street and which contains the main entrance to the main building or
development. Only one front yard shall be required for each development.
      (2)   Pavement widths. Streets and drives within the development shall be
of sufficient width to accommodate unimpeded movement of fire vehicles.
Pavement width shall vary depending upon parking along the street and direction
of vehicle movement.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall provide pedestrian movement within the
development and to existing public streets or sidewalks. Sidewalks shall also
be constructed along streets adjoining the development. Sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four feet wide, four inches thick and be constructed of portland
cement concrete.
(Prior Code, § 150.063) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.163 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The developer shall file 12 prints of the site plan of the proposed
development in the office of the Zoning Administrator with a filing fee of $100
to be deposited in the appropriate village account. The site plan will be
reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall retain four prints on file and
distribute the prints as follows:
      (1)   Two prints to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   One print to the Superintendent of Public Works;
      (3)   One print to the village’s consulting engineer;
      (4)   One print to the County Superintendent of Highways;
      (5)   One print to the appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, if
applicable;
      (6)   One print to the Village Clerk;
      (7)   One print to the village’s fire protection district; and
      (8)   The reviewing entities shall review the plans for conformance with
village codes and transmit any comments or requirements in writing to the
Planning Commission within seven calendar days of receipt.
(Prior Code, § 150.064) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.164 COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Recommendation of approval.
      (1)   If the Planning Commission finds that the site plan meets the
retirements of this chapter; that the site plan meets the requirements of other
village ordinances pertaining to zoning, building and fire safety; and
utilities will be adequate, the Planning Commission shall indicate a
recommendation for approval on three copies of the plan in substantially the
following language:
 
This large scale development is recommended for approval by the Riverton Planning Commission.
 
   By:                                                                              
 
   Date:                                                                           
 
 
      (2)   The prints so endorsed shall be forwarded by the Zoning
Administrator to the Village Board for further disposition, along with minutes
of the meeting at which the plans were approved.
   (B)   Recommendation of disapproval.
      (1)   If the Planning Commission does not make the findings in division
(A) above, it shall inform the developer of its findings in writing and state
the non-compliance found, and shall endorse three copies of the site plan with
its recommendation of disapproval, and shall forward the plans to the Village
Board for further disposition, along with minutes of the meeting at which the
plans were disapproved.
      (2)   If the developer desires to amend the disapproved large scale plans
prior to consideration by the Village Board, the developer shall submit 12
prints of the amended plan to the Zoning Administrator, which shall be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the
Planning Commission. No filing fee shall be necessary. The Zoning Administrator
shall transmit copies of the amended plan as described in §
155.163 of this chapter and review will proceed as indicated in said section.
(Prior Code, § 150.064) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.165 REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   The large scale development plans shall be reviewed by the Village Board as
soon as practicable after review by the Planning Commission. The developer may
appear and be heard at the Village Board meeting at which the large scale
development plan is considered. The Village Board shall approve or disapprove
the plan by ordinance or resolution; and the President shall endorse the large
scale development plan in the same manner as prescribed herein for subdivision
preliminary plans. Approved plans shall expire, if not completed in the same
manner as set forth herein for final subdivision plats.
(Prior Code, § 150.066) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.166 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   The developer shall submit construction plans for private drives, streets,
sidewalks, grading, drainage and utilities to the village’s consulting engineer
for review in the same manner and for the same review and inspection fees as
prescribed herein for subdivision plats.
(Prior Code, § 150.067) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.167 CONSTRUCTION AND SECURITIES.
   No building permits shall be issued for any structure or mobile homes unless
the large scale development plan has been approved by the Village Board and
construction work either has been installed according to the approved
construction plans or a security provided in the same manner as set forth in
this chapter for final plats of subdivision. Security for completion of private
drives, streets, grading and drainage shall not be required for purely
residential developments containing less than eight living units. However,
utilities and other facilities serving a public function must be built or
security provided.
(Prior Code, § 150.068) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
TRACT SURVEY
§ 155.180 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Tract survey approval shall be required as set forth in §
155.005 of this chapter.
   (B)   Tract survey approval is designed to ensure that all divisions of land
comply with the State Plats Act, this chapter and the appropriate zoning
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 150.069) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.181 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a tract survey is required by this chapter, the following shall be
submitted:
   (A)   Land survey; and
   (B)   Certification by a professional state land surveyor, together with the
surveyor’s seal, attesting to the accuracy of the survey.
(Prior Code, § 150.070) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 155.182 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Five copies of the tract survey shall be submitted to the plats
officer accompanied by the appropriate fee.
   (B)   The plats officer shall review the survey to ensure that it conforms
to the pertinent requirements of this chapter and applicable zoning
regulations. The owner shall be notified of tract survey approval or
disapproval within one working day.
      (1)   Disapproval. If the plats officer finds that the tract survey does
not meet the requirements of this code, the disapproval and non-compliance
found shall be specified in writing.
      (2)   Approval. If the plats officer finds that the tract survey does
meet the requirements of this code, the following shall be printed or stamped
on the original and prints and signed by the plats officer:
 
COUNTY OF SANGAMON      )
               ) SS
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
   I, the Village of Riverton Plats Officer, do hereby approve this tract
survey, this _____ day of _____________, 20_____.
_______________________________________________
Village of Riverton Plats Officer
 
   (C)   The plats officer shall keep one copy and transmit four copies of the
approved tract survey to the owner for recording.
(Prior Code, §150.071) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 15-027, passed 10-5-
2015)
§ 155.183 RECORDING THE TRACT SURVEY.
   After the tract survey has been approved, the original shall be recorded in
the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. If the tract survey is not
recorded within 180 days of plats officer approval, the approval shall be null
and void.
(Prior Code, § 150.072) (Ord. 96-006, passed 2-5-1996)
APPENDIX A: DETAIL OF REAR YARD UNDERDRAIN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1850.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 150, App. A-2)
APPENDIX B: PAVED DITCH DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1854.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 150, App. A-3)
CHAPTER 156: FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Base flood elevation
   
156.04   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
156.05   Development permit
   
156.06   Variances
   
156.07   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.09   Severability
Flood Damage Prevention
   
156.20   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
156.21   Protecting buildings
   
156.22   Subdivision requirements
   
156.23   Public health and other standards
   
156.24   Carrying capacity and notification
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS Ch. 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/
11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Prior Code, § 152.001) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The BASE
FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
156.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more
than180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the village, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally identified as such on panel number
260F of the countywide flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 2007. FLOODPLAIN also includes
those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of the unincorporated county that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated 2007.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of the village shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by
FEMA and dated 2007. The FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining floodplains of the
village shall be according to the best data available from the federal, state
or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; and/or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
156.21 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during the life of the building equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. The term includes “repetitive loss
buildings”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place during the life of the building in which the cumulative
percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Prior Code, § 152.002) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of applicable rivers,
creeks and streams shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide flood insurance study of the county prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in 2007.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of the county.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide flood insurance rate map of the
county shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (E)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 2007.
(Prior Code, § 152.003) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.04 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
156.05 of this chapter;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
156.20 of this chapter;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
156.21 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the “as-built”
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
156.22 of this chapter;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
156.23 of this chapter;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
156.06 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
156.99 of this chapter as are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Prior Code, § 152.004) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
156.21 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals
or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state and local permits have been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 152.005) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.06 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village for a
variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant’s request for
a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board. The
Village Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
156.21 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
156.21 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
“historic structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
156.20 and
156.21 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Prior Code, § 152.011) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.07 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside
of the floodplain will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 152.012) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other chapters adopted by the
village to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or chapter
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
   (B)   Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (C)   Where this chapter and other chapter easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 152.014) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.09 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and
the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of
the remainder.
(Prior Code, § 152.015) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 156.20 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot;
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot at a point one thousand feet
upstream of the proposed structure;
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile;
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging or relocating the existing channel;
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit;
and
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge;
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream;
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris;
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated; and
         (f)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety Code
and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one-quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limits established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers;
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet;
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet;
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line;
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water;
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible;
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill;
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow; and
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers.
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6: the following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings; provided, no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection;
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures;
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5), shall
be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to be
crossed; and
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement-filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A)(8)(a) above,
other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided
all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet.
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site. For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe
of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10%, nor the volume of
material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream bank or
shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to lessen the
quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain chapter;
         (b)   The principle structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (7-25-1988);
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect flood waters onto another property;
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material;
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel;
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions;
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review; and
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet;
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel;
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site;
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of stream
bank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of the
levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment; provided, the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR).
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, Channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13.
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Prior Code, § 152.006) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.21 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
156.20 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively during
the life of the building. If substantially improved, the existing structure and
the addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
156.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation; provided that, the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation); provided, a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on-
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Admin. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on-site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Prior Code, § 152.007) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.22 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
156.20 and
156.21 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 152.008) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.23 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
156.20 and
156.21 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
156.21 of this chapter;
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight; and
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access
routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be
provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 152.009) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.24 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 152.010) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten-days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $250, or more than $750, for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his, her or their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 152.013) (Ord. 2004-010, passed - -; Ord. 2007-018, passed 6-4-
2007)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Short title
   
157.002   Purpose
   
157.003   Definitions
   
157.004   Establishment of districts
   
157.005   Boundaries of districts
   
157.006   Application of regulations
   
157.007   Continuance of non-conforming uses
   
157.008   Off-street parking
   
157.009   Off-street loading
   
157.010   Obstructions to vision at intersections prohibited
   
157.011   Easements for utilities
Agricultural District (AG)
   
157.025   Preamble
   
157.026   Uses permitted
   
157.027   Special uses
   
157.028   Required lot area and lot width
   
157.029   Height regulation
   
157.030   Required yards
   
157.031   Off-street parking
Residential Districts (R-1, R-2 and R-3)
   
157.045   Preamble
   
157.046   Uses permitted in R-1 District
   
157.047   Uses permitted in R-2 District
   
157.048   Uses permitted in R-3 District
   
157.049   Special uses in R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts
   
157.049.1   Special uses in R-3 District only
   
157.050   Required area and lot widths in residential districts
   
157.051   Building height regulation
   
157.052   Yards required
   
157.053   Off-street parking
Commercial Districts (C-1 and C-2)
   
157.065   Preamble; purpose
   
157.066   Uses permitted in C-1 District
   
157.067   Uses permitted in C-2 District
   
157.068   Special uses in C-2 District
   
157.069   Required lot area and lot width
   
157.070   Building height regulation
   
157.071   Yards required
   
157.072   Off-street parking and loading
Industrial Districts (I-1 and I-2)
   
157.085   Preamble; purpose
   
157.086   Uses permitted in I-1 District
   
157.087   Uses permitted in I-2 District
   
157.088   Required lot area and lot width
   
157.089   Building height regulation
   
157.090   Yards required
   
157.091   Off-street parking and loading
Exceptions and Modifications
   
157.105   Lot of record
   
157.106   Exceptions to yard requirements
   
157.107   Exceptions to height limits
Administration
   
157.120   Zoning certificates
   
157.121   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
157.122   Planning Commission
   
157.123   Procedures for zoning amendments
   
157.124   Procedures for initial zoning pursuant to annexation agreement
   
157.125   Special uses
   
157.126   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.127   Appeals procedures
   
157.128   Variations
   
157.129   Fees for variances, appeals and amendments
   
157.130   Nuisances
   
Appendix A: Petition for Zoning Amendment
   
Appendix B: Petition for Special Use
   
Appendix C: Petition for Zoning Variance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 SHORT TITLE.
   An ordinance to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified uses, hereafter
erected or altered within the corporate limits of the village, and all property
located within an area of one and one-half miles of such corporate limits, in
all directions; to regulate and determine the area of yards, courts and other
open spaces within the surrounding of such buildings; to regulate and limit of
intensity of the use of lot areas; to establish the boundaries of districts for
the said purposes within such corporate limits and one and one-half miles
beyond the corporate limits of the said village in all directions, and
prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 151.001) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Be it ordained by the President and Board of Trustees of the village,
that whereas, the Village Board has determined and deems it necessary to
provide adequate light, air, safety from fire and other danger, to conserve the
value of land and buildings throughout the village and an area of one and one-
half miles beyond the corporate limits of the village, in all directions, and
to promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To establish, regulate and limit the building, or setback lines on
or along any street, traffic-way, drive or parkway;
      (2)   To regulate and restrict the location of trades and industries and
the location of buildings designed for specified industrial, business,
residential and other uses;
      (3)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
      (4)   To divide the village and an area of one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of said village in all directions into districts of such
number, shape, area and of such different classes according to the use of land
and buildings, intensity of the use of lot areas, area of open spaces or other
classifications as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this
chapter;
      (5)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
      (6)   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.002) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the singular
include plural and all words in the plural include the singular. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not directory. The word “used” shall be deemed to
include “designed, intended or arranged to be used”.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal
use or building.
   AGRICULTURAL USES, BONA FIDE. The growing of crops in the open, forestry,
mushroom growing, flower gardening, operation of apiaries, nurseries, orchards,
roadside stands, signs and billboards relating to the sale or use of products
produced thereon, and necessary structures and farm dwellings for such uses.
The keeping of “livestock”, as defined in this code of ordinances, is not a
BONA FIDE AGRICULTURAL USE.
   AGRICULTURE. The growing, harvesting and storing of crops, including but not
limited to legume, hay, grain, fruit and truck or vegetable crops,
floriculture, horticulture, mushroom growing, nurseries, orchards, and
vineyards, forestry and greenhouses; buildings used for growing, harvesting and
preparing agricultural products for market, buildings for storing and
protecting farm machinery and equipment, and retail operations for selling
produce and other agricultural products produced on the same zoning lot.
AGRICULTURE does not include the keeping of livestock.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way dedicated to public travel or less than 20
feet in width.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed or used for residential, business,
industrial or other public or private purposes, or accessory thereto, and
including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, trailers, billboards, signs and
similar structures whether stationary or movable.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street on which structure faces at a
distance from the street equal to the depth of the front yard.
   DWELLING. A permanent building used primarily for human habitation but not
including facilities for the housing of transient residents, nor to include
mobile homes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A permanent building or portion thereof providing
separate living accommodations for three or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A permanent building, separate and free standing,
in itself providing living accommodations for one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A permanent building designed exclusively for
occupancy by two families.
   FRONT YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot between
the principal building and the right-of-way line or street line which the
building faces.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade, street grade or finished grade, at the building line, whichever
is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling by the
occupant of the dwelling and as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to
the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. Such a use shall employ not
more than four persons outside the family resident in dwelling.
   HORSEKEEPING. The keeping, raising, boarding and feeding of horses
(including miniature horses), ponies, donkeys and mules, including the keeping
of such animals as pets.
   LOT. A piece, parcel or plot of land occupied or to be occupied by one
principal building and its accessory buildings and including the open spaces
required under this chapter.
   MINI WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-access and
fenced area that contains individual, and compartmentalized stalls or lockers
of varying sizes for the storage of business and household goods which are
leased or rented on an individual basis. Storage of business goods is limited
to those not associated with any office, retail or other business or commercial
use located on the same zoning lot.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling for one or more persons.
The term MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed after 6-30-
1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
   MODULAR HOME.
      (1)   A factory-built home which is:
         (a)   Subject to regulation by the State Department of Public Health;
and
         (b)   Not built on a permanent chassis.
      (2)   By law, a modular home must have affixed to it a yellow seal in the
shape of the State of Illinois or a similar seal of the State of Indiana. A
MODULAR HOME on a permanent perimeter foundation extending below the frost
depth qualifies as a single-family structure in any zone in which single-family
structures are allowed. Should the State Department of Public Health approve a
factory-built home with a permanent chassis, such a home is not considered a
MODULAR HOME under this division (2), but rather is considered a “mobile home”
under this division (2).
   NURSING HOME OR ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility licensed or permitted
under the Nursing Home Care Act, the Life Care Facility Act, the Assisted
Living and Shared Housing Act, the Community Living Facilities Licensing Act,
or subsection (a-20) of Section 30 of the Alternative Health Care Delivery Act,
or a facility designated as a supportive living facility under Section 5-5.01a
of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
   NURSING HOME OR ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY, LARGE. A nursing home or assisted
living facility designed to house, or operated in such a manner that it houses,
20 or more residents.
   NURSING HOME OR ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY, SMALL. A nursing home or assisted
living facility designed to house, or operated in such a manner that it houses,
fewer than 20 residents.
   REAR YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
   SIDE YARD. The yard extending along the side lot line from the front yard to
the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest part of the
principal building.
   STREET. Any public or private way dedicated to public travel 20 feet or more
in width. The word STREET shall include the words ROAD, HIGHWAY and
THOROUGHFARE.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE (MAJOR). Any change in the supporting members of a
building or structure such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or
girders, or any substantial structural change in the roof or in the exterior
walls, but not to include repairs such as painting, glazing, siding, roofing
and patching needed for normal maintenance.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a building, structure or land is
occupied or maintained.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, §151.003) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 96-036, passed 12-2-
1996; Ord. 96-037, passed 12-2-1996; Ord. 2003-029, passed 10-6-2003; Ord.
2008-020, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 15-005, passed 1-20-2015; Ord. 15-028, passed
10-5-2015)
§ 157.004 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all land within the village and its
contiguous area is designated on the zoning maps as being in one of the
following districts:
AG District  Agricultural
C-1 District General retail
C-2 District Service retail
I-1 District Light industrial
I-2 District Heavy industrial
R-1 District Single-family residential
R-2 District Single- and two-family residential
R-3 District Single-, two- and multi-family residential
 
(Prior Code, § 151.005) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993)
§ 157.005 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   Unless otherwise indicated on the zoning districts maps, the boundary lines
of the districts follow lot lines, centerlines of streets, alleys or railroad
rights-of-way, or such centerlines, extended, centerlines of creeks or the
corporate limit line as existing at the time of adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.006) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.006 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building
or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a use expressly
permitted by and in conformity with the regulations for the district in which
it is located.
   (B)   Zoning of annexed areas. All territory which may hereafter be annexed
to the village shall from time of annexation be considered as being in the R-
l District until and unless otherwise designated by chapter amendment as
specified in the procedure in §§
157.128, and
157.129 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.007) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 96-036, passed 12-2-
1996)
§ 157.007 CONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any lawful use of land or structure existing on February 2, 1968, or any
two-family dwelling use of land or structure in an R-l Zone existing on October
1, 1993, or any other lawful use of land or structure existing as of the date
of any other amendment to this chapter or which is lawful under the Sangamon
County Zoning Ordinance upon the date the land is annexed into the village
after August 1, 2015, but is rendered unlawful by such amendment or annexation,
may be continued with the following limitations.
   (A)   Non-conforming use not to expand. Any structure containing a non-
conforming use may not be expanded or substantially remodeled. The Zoning Board
of Appeals may approve any remodeling and incidental repairs which do not tend
to prolong the life of the non-conforming use.
   (B)   Non-conforming use to rebuild. Any structure containing a non-
conforming use, which has been damaged to any extent, may be repaired or
reconstructed in conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   Reestablishment. No non-conforming use shall be reestablished after
having been intentionally discontinued. Vacating of premises or building or
non-operative status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (D)   Non-conforming uses not to be substituted. No non-conforming use may
be substituted for any other non-conforming use. No non-conforming use may be
substituted for a conforming use.
(Prior Code, §151.008) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 74-012, passed 7-2-
1974; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-1993; Ord. 15-029, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 157.008 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Hard-surfaced off-street automobile parking shall be provided on
any lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established; such
space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, except the
parking and loading space requirements of this section shall not apply to the
General Retail District (C-1); provided that, parking and loading facilities,
if voluntarily established, shall comply with the minimum standards and
specifications of this section.
      (2)   For purposes of computing gross off-street parking area required,
the ratio of 250 square feet per parking space shall be used.
      (3)   Following are minimum requirements for specific uses:
Boarding and rooming houses           1 space for each 2 rooms occupied by
                                      boarders or roomers
Dwelling                              1 space for each dwelling unit
Hospitals and other institutions for  1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space for
care and treatment                    each staff and visiting doctor, plus 1
                                      space for each 3 employees
Office uses                           1 space for each 300 square feet of gross
                                      floor area
Retail establishments                 1 space for each 400 square feet of gross
                                      floor area
Theater, auditorium, including school 1 space for each 8 seats available at
auditorium, church or other place of  maximum capacity
public assembly
Tourist accommodations                1 space for each room offered for tourist
                                      accommodations
Wholesale, storage and manufacturing  1 space for each 5 employees
establishments
 
   (B)   (1)   If off-street parking space for non-residential uses as required
above cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is
conducted, the zoning enforcing officer may permit such space to be provided if
such space is within 200 feet of any entrance to such principal use.
      (2)   Such off-street parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be
required open space associated with this permitted use and shall not be reduced
nor encroached upon in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 151.009) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.009 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Every building or structure used for other than residential uses and
constructed after the adoption of this chapter shall provide adequate space for
loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 151.010) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.010 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   On any corner lot in all districts, except the C-1 General Retail District,
no fence, structure or planting which interferes with traffic visibility across
the corner shall be erected or maintained within 35 feet of the point of
intersection of the right-of-way lines extended.
(Prior Code, § 151.011) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.011 EASEMENTS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   No permanent structures, fences, nor any permanent planting of
shrubberies, nor trees, shall be placed on the easements for utilities on any
lot, site or other premises within the village.
   (B)   Should any such permanent structures, fences, shrubberies or trees be
placed on the easements for utilities of the village, the village may, by
injunctive action, cause them to be removed at the owner’s expense, and impose
penalties on the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 151.012) (Ord. 84-010, passed 6-19-1984)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AG)
§ 157.025 PREAMBLE.
   The purpose of the agricultural district is to encourage the preservation of
proper setting for and pleasant approaches to the village; to provide an area
for agricultural pursuits protected from infringements of unguided urban
development; to create and preserve a setting for rural small estate
residential development; to conserve areas physically unsuitable for intensive
development; and to provide in the area immediately surrounding the village, an
environment capable of accommodating future expansion of the village in an
orderly and efficient manner.
(Prior Code, § 151.015) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.026 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Horsekeeping, but only on zoning lots at least 10 acres in size and
not less than 300 feet in width at its narrowest point;
   (C)   One- and two-family residential dwellings accessory to agricultural
uses, and home occupations conducted therein;
   (D)   Community buildings, utility and service system buildings and lands
including, but not limited to, wastewater treatment facilities and related
works, libraries and museums, picnic grounds, religious, educational or
charitable institutions; and
   (E)   Unlighted signs notifying the sale, rental or lease of land for sale
or farm goods on the premises on which the sign is maintained having not over
50 square feet of sign area; signs announcing meeting time and place of civic
organizations.
(Prior Code, §151.016) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-004, passed 4-14-
1993; Ord. 15-028, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 157.027 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted as special uses when authorized by the
President and Board of Trustees after a public hearing and recommendation by
the Zoning Board of Appeals: (Such special use shall be subject to the
following requirements and any other requirements the Zoning Board of Appeals
determines necessary to further the purpose of the agricultural district as
stated in the preamble.)
   (A)   Outdoor advertising structures; providing, they are not closer than
300 feet to the nearest highway right-of-way or 500 feet to the nearest
residential or public or semi-public property, and that permits are issued for
not longer than five years;
   (B)   Uses of land including quarrying and mining of natural resources,
sanitary land fill and other types of land fill, refuse disposal and dumps; and
   (C)   Cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 151.017) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.028 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   Each dwelling shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than one
acre and a lot width of not less than 150 feet.
(Prior Code, § 151.018) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.029 HEIGHT REGULATION.
   No residential dwelling shall exceed two stories or 30 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 151.019) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.030 REQUIRED YARDS.
   All structures shall have the following minimum yard spaces:
 
Corner lots Shall provide the minimum front yards requirements on each street
            side of the lot
Front yard  50 feet
Rear yard   Each not less than 30 feet
Side yard   Each not less than 15 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 151.020) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.031 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   There shall be provided in the AG District off-street parking in accordance
with §
157.008 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.021)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-1, R-2 AND R-3)
§ 157.045 PREAMBLE.
   The purpose of the residential districts is to provide an area for
residential uses and those public and semi-public uses normally considered an
integral part of the residential neighborhood they serve.
(Prior Code, § 151.025) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.046 USES PERMITTED IN R-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Single-family residential dwellings and home occupations;
   (B)   Churches, schools, libraries, parks, playgrounds;
   (C)   Portable storage sheds and home gardens; and
   (D)   Unlighted real estate and non-conforming business use signs, and
public building or church-sign or bulletin boards pertaining to the property on
which they are placed and not having over 12 feet of sign area.
(Prior Code, §151.026) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993; Ord. 15-028, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 18-021, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 157.047 USES PERMITTED IN R-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 District; and
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 151.027) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993)
§ 157.048 USES PERMITTED IN R-3 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-2 District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
   (C)   Small nursing home or assisted living facilities.
(Prior Code, §151.027(a)) (Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-1993; Ord. 15-005, passed
1-20-2015)
§ 157.049 SPECIAL USES IN R-1, R-2 AND R-3 DISTRICTS.
   The following uses are permitted as special uses in the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 Districts when authorized by the Board of Trustees after a public hearing and
recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals: (Such special use shall be
subject to the following requirements that the Zoning Board of Appeals
determines necessary to further the purpose of the residential districts as
stated in the preamble.)
   (A)   Planned residential development under single ownership providing such
development is 15 acres or more. Such planned developments may vary the
specific dwelling type requirements; yard, height or area per dwelling
requirements; providing, however, that, the total number of dwelling units to
be accommodated is not greater than would be otherwise allowed under normal
development and this chapter;
   (B)   Individual mobile homes of a temporary nature; providing that:
      (1)   Such mobile home shall not be established for longer than 18
months;
      (2)   Such mobile home shall meet the single-family dwelling requirements
for lot area and yards for the particular residential district in which it is
located; and
      (3)   That such mobile home will not, in its proposed location, impair
public health, safety, comfort, morals or welfare of the community.
   (C)   (1)   Trailer parks with permanent accommodations for mobile homes;
providing that:
         (a)   Such trailer park will have permanent accommodations for a
minimum of five trailers;
         (b)   Trailer accommodations will include for each trailer individual
underground sewer and water connections, concrete trailer platform, hard
surface drives to be shared by not more than two trailers leading directly to a
public improved street;
         (c)   The plan of development will provide a minimum of 1,250 square
feet per trailer space; and
         (d)   The trailer spaces will not be located any closer to the
bounding property lines of the park than the appropriate yard requirements for
the district would allow.
      (2)   A certificate of compliance shall be required for each individual
trailer to be located in the park prior to occupancy as provided in this
chapter.
   (D)   Cemeteries, clubs, hospitals, lodges, sanitariums, rest homes, art
galleries, community centers, public services and utility buildings.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings are permanently attached to
the real estate. Portable sheds are not special uses.
   (F)   Ground-based solar panels, except solar panels installed in the rear
yard and less than eight feet in height, and which comply with village
interconnection and net metering policies.
(Prior Code, §151.028) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993; Ord. 18-019, passed 11-19-2018; Ord. 18-021, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 157.049.1 SPECIAL USES IN R-3 DISTRICT ONLY.
   The following use is permitted as special use in the R-3 District only, when
authorized pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
157.125 of this code:
      Large nursing home or assisted living facilities.
(Ord. 15-005, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 157.050 REQUIRED AREA AND LOT WIDTHS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In the R-1 District:
 
                          Min. Lot Area per Family  Min. Lot Width per
                          (Square Feet)             Structure at Front of Bldg.
                                                    Line (Feet)
Single-family dwelling:
With public water and     6,000                     50
public sewer
With public water supply  10,000                    80
or sewer
With neither public water 20,000                    100
supply, nor sewer
 
   (B)   In the R-2 District:
 
                           Min. Lot Area per Family  Min. Lot Width per
                           (Square Feet)             Structure at Front of
                                                     Bldg. Line (Feet)
One-family dwelling        Same as in the R-1 district
Two-family dwelling
With public water and      4,500                     75
public sewer
With public water or       7,500                     100
public sewer
With neither public water, 15,000                    125
nor sewer
 
   (C)   In the R-3 District:
 
                         Min. Lot Area per Family  Min. Lot Width per Structure
                         (Square Feet)             at Front of Bldg. Line
                                                   (Feet)
Multiple-family dwelling 2,500                     50
Roominghouse or          1,500                     50
lodginghouse
Single-family dwelling   6,000                     50
Two-family dwelling      3,000                     50
 
(Prior Code, § 151.020) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993)
§ 157.051 BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATION.
   No building, including any roof-installed solar panels, shall exceed two
stories or 30 feet in height, unless each side yard is increased over the
required minimum by five feet for every five feet, or fraction thereof, of
additional height over 30 feet. In no case shall the building height exceed 50
feet. Solar panels must also comply with village interconnection and net
metering policies.
(Prior Code, §151.030) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 18-019, passed 11-19-
2018)
§ 157.052 YARDS REQUIRED.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 Districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
 
Front yard           25 feet minimum
Rear yard            20 feet or 20% of the lot depth whichever is greater
Side yard            5 feet minimum
                     Shall provide a front yard on each street side, not,
Yards of corner lots however, to reduce the buildable width of the lot below 32
                     feet
 
(Prior Code, § 151.031) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993)
§ 157.053 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   There shall be provided in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts adequate off-
street parking in accordance with the schedule in §
157.008 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.032) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 93-038, passed 11-12-
1993)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS (C-1 AND C-2)
§ 157.065 PREAMBLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the C-1 General Retail District is to provide for a
wide range of retail facilities and services of such a nature as to be fully
compatible in the proximity they must enjoy in the central business district.
   (B)   The purpose of the C-2 Service Retail District is to provide for those
retail businesses and services which require a location other than in the
central business district being either highway oriented, requiring larger
tracts of land not normally available in the central business district, or to
provide local neighborhood retail shopping facilities to that residential area
immediately adjacent.
(Prior Code, § 151.035) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.066 USES PERMITTED IN C-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in a residential district;
   (B)   Major retail outlets: furniture, department, clothing, shoe and
variety stores; hardware, appliance, paint and wallpaper stores;
   (C)   Food, drug and beverage: grocery stores, supermarkets, meat markets,
drug stores, bakery in conjunction with retail sales, restaurants, tea rooms,
taverns and liquor stores;
   (D)   Specialty shops: gift shops, magazine, book and stationery outlets,
florist shops, camera and photography shops, sporting goods;
   (E)   Service and recreation: laundromat, dry cleaning and laundry pick-up
stations, barber and beauty shops, shoe repair and tailor shops, mortuaries,
printing shop with not more than ten full-time regular employees, places of
amusement and assembly;
   (F)   Business and professional offices: medical and dental offices and
clinics, law offices, insurance and real estate offices, banks, finance and
utility companies;
   (G)   Automotive and related uses: new and used car sales, service and
repair, gasoline filling stations, motorcycle and bicycle shops, cab and bus
stands and depots;
   (H)   Accessory uses or buildings; and
   (I)   Business and advertising signs pertaining to the business on the
property on which the sign is located; providing that:
      (1)   Illumination of all signs shall be diffused or indirect and shall
be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential
districts or into the public way; and
      (2)   That any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic-
control signal shall not have flashing intermittent red, green or amber
illumination.
(Prior Code, § 151.036) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.067 USES PERMITTED IN C-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the residential districts;
   (B)   Any use permitted in the C-1 General Retail District;
   (C)   Building trades or equipment: building, concrete, electrical, masonry,
sheet metal, plumbing and heating shops, building material establishments
(providing, no assembly, construction, millwork or concrete block manufacture
is done on premises);
   (D)   Vehicle drive-in and heavy vehicle service: drive-in theaters, drive-
in restaurants and refreshment stands; express, cartage and trucking
facilities; large item machinery or bulk sales and storage not including
outdoor unfenced storage;
   (E)   Heavy service and processing facilities: laundry and dry cleaning
plants; linens, towel, diaper and similar supply services; animal pounds,
kennels and veterinary establishments; frozen food lockers; seed and food
processing plants; dairies;
   (F)   Accessory uses or buildings; and
   (G)   Business and advertising signs pertaining to the business on the
property on which the sign is located; providing that:
      (1)   Illumination of all signs shall be diffused or indirect and shall
be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential
districts or into the public way; and
      (2)   That any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic-
control signal shall not have flashing intermittent red, green or amber
illumination.
(Prior Code, § 151.037) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.068 SPECIAL USES IN C-2 DISTRICT.
   The following use is permitted in the C-2 District as a special use, after
compliance with the special use procedures in §
157.125 of this chapter: mini warehouses.
(Prior Code, § 151.037A) (Ord. 2003-029, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 157.069 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   (A)   Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial
Districts shall meet the minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements of
the R-2 Residential District.
   (B)   Each business use to be accommodated in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial
Districts shall provide a minimum lot area of 2,500 square feet; no minimum lot
width is required for business uses.
(Prior Code, § 151.038) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.070 BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATION.
   (A)   In the C-1 General Retail District, no building shall exceed three
stories or 45 feet.
   (B)   In the C-2 Service Retail District, no building shall exceed two
stories or 30 feet.
(Prior Code, § 151.039) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.071 YARDS REQUIRED.
   All buildings to be constructed, altered or moved in the commercial
districts shall meet the following minimum requirements.
   (A)   Yards required in the C-1 General Retail District:
 
Front yard No minimum yard required
Rear yard  20 feet. Where a rear lot line abuts an alley, 1/2 of the width of
           such alley may be considered in meeting the rear yard requirements
           No minimum yard required, except lots adjoining a residential
Side yard  district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
           that required in the adjoining residential district
 
   (B)   Yards required in the C-2 Service Retail District:
 
Front yard 15 feet
Rear yard  20 feet. Where a rear lot line abuts an alley, 1/2 of the width of
           such alley may be considered in meeting the rear yard requirements
Side yard  10 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 151.040) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.072 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be provided in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts off-street
parking and loading in accordance with the exceptions and requirements of §§
157.008 and
157.009 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.041) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS (I-1 AND I-2)
§ 157.085 PREAMBLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the I-1 Light Industrial District is to provide for
commercial uses, storage and those manufacturing uses not normally creating a
nuisance discernible beyond its property.
   (B)   The purpose of the I-2 Heavy Industrial District is to provide for
industrial uses not allowed in any other district; providing that, within this
district, uses of a hazardous nature or those producing extensive smoke or odor
shall not be located so that the general hazard or nuisance affects a large
segment of the community.
(Prior Code, § 151.045) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.086 USES PERMITTED IN I-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts, except
residential uses;
   (B)   Warehousing and storage: indoor and outdoor storage of goods and
materials including warehousing, pole yards, building material storage and
trucking storage;
   (C)   Manufacturing: manufacture or processing of small items including
gloves, footwear, bathing caps, shoes, boots, boxes and cartons, hardware,
toys, electric batteries, motors or generators; textile products manufacture;
glass, cement and stone products manufacture; furniture manufacture; food
manufacture or processing including hatcheries, canning, freezing, storage and
bottling;
   (D)   Other manufacturing uses of a light nature, free from any
objectionable odors, fumes, dirt, vibration or noise detectable at the lot
line. Such uses shall not be established without an application for a permit
which shall be accompanied by a certification by a registered engineer or
architect indicating that every reasonable provision will be taken to eliminate
or minimize gas fumes, odors, dirt vibration or noise. In the event of the
denial of such permit, an applicant shall have a right of appeal to the Zoning
Board of Appeals, in accordance with §§
157.124 through
157.126 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Adult uses, pursuant to a permit granted in accordance with
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   An adult use cannabis cultivation center, craft grower and
transporting organization, as licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture pursuant to Public Act 101-0027.
(Prior Code, § 151.046) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-
2001; Ord. 20-004, passed 3-26-2020)
§ 157.087 USES PERMITTED IN I-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   All uses not otherwise prohibited by law, except residential uses;
provided, however, that, the following uses will be permitted as special uses
in the I-2 District when authorized by the Board of Trustees after public
hearing and recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals: bag cleaning, boiler
and tank works; central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster or paving
materials; coke oven, curing, tanning and storage of raw hides and skins;
distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar; fat rendering; forge plant; foundry
or metal fabrication plant; gasoline or oil storage above ground in excess of
500 gallons; slaughter house or stockyards; smelting plant; and the manufacture
of acetylene, acid, alcohol or alcoholic beverages; ammonia, bleaching powder,
chemicals, brick, pottery, terra-cotta or tile; candles; disinfectants; dye-
stuffs; fertilizers; linseed oil, paint, oil, turpentine, varnish, soap and tar
products, or any other use which, in the opinion of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, would emit detrimental or obnoxious noise, vibration, smoke, odors,
dust or other objectionable conditions beyond the confines of its property. The
Zoning Board of Appeals shall recommend Board of Trustees approval if it
determines that the proposed use will not extend its detrimental or obnoxious
effects beyond the limits of the heavy industrial district in which it is
located. Such special uses shall be subject to any requirements the Zoning
Board of Appeals determines necessary to further the purpose of the industrial
district as stated in the preamble; and
   (B)   Salvage and wrecking operations, if located not less than 200 feet
from any R District; provided, all operations are conducted within an area
enclosed on all sides with a tight painted fence not less than eight feet high
and provided further that such operation shall not be visible from the nearest
street or highway.
   (C)   An adult use cannabis cultivation center, craft grower and
transporting organization, as licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture pursuant to Public Act 101-0027.
(Prior Code, § 151.047) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968; Ord. 20-004, passed 3-26-
2020)
§ 157.088 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   Each use to be established in the I-1 District or the I-2 District shall
provide a minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet and a minimum lot width of 50
feet.
(Prior Code, § 151.048) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.089 BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATION.
   No building in the I-1 District or I-2 District shall exceed 50 feet in
height.
(Prior Code, § 151.049) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.090 YARDS REQUIRED.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved, in the I-1 and I-
2 Districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
 
Front yard 25 feet
Rear yard  25 feet
Side yard  10 feet, except where a side yard abuts a residential district in
           which case a side yard of 25 feet shall be provided
 
(Prior Code, § 151.050) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.091 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be provided in the I-1 and 1-2 Districts adequate off-street
parking and loading in accordance with the schedule in §§
157.008 and
157.009 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.051) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 157.105 LOT OF RECORD.
   When a lot which is an official lot of record at the time of adoption of
this chapter does not comply with the area, yard or other requirements of this
chapter, an application may be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a
variance from the terms of this chapter in accordance with the procedure
outlined in §§
157.124 through
157.126 of this chapter, but that the charges and fees normally required for
variances shall not apply to unimproved lots of record. Such a lot may be used
as a building site; provided, however, that, the yard and other requirements of
the district are complied with as closely as possible in the opinion of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 151.055) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.106 EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Allowable projections of residential structures into yards.
Architectural features of residential buildings such as window sills, cornices,
roof overhangs may project into the required yard; provided, such projection is
not more than four feet and does not reach closer than four feet to any lot
line.
   (B)   Allowable projections of business structures over sidewalk. Signs,
awnings, canopies, marquees, are permitted to overhang the sidewalk in the C-
1 General Retail District only; providing that, overhanging signs are a minimum
of eight feet above the sidewalk at any point and that all other structures are
a minimum of six feet eight inches above the sidewalk at any point.
   (C)   Allowable projections of accessory building into rear yard. One-story
accessory buildings may project into rear yards abutting on an alley or
easement; providing, such projection extends not closer than five feet to the
rear lot line and two feet to a side lot line.
(Prior Code, § 151.056) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
§ 157.107 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smoke stacks, derricks, conveyors, flag
poles, radio towers, masts and aerials.
(Prior Code, § 151.057) (Ord. 176A, passed 2-6-1968)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.120 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   No permit pertaining to the use of land or building shall be issued unless
the Zoning Administrator has certified, after examination, that it complies
with all provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.060) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.121 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. There is hereby created the Office of Zoning
Administrator of the village. The Zoning Administrator of the village shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village
Board and at a salary of $50 per meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals or
Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall have a one-year term or
until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified. The Zoning
Administrator may be an employee of the village, but shall not be an elected
official, nor a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission.
   (B)   Duties. In enforcing and administering this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Issue all certificates and make and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct or cause to be conducted inspections of buildings,
structures and uses of land to determine compliance with the terms of this
chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of the chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variations, appeals
and applications therefor;
      (4)   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals and
Planning Commission, and Village Board all applications for appeals,
variations, special uses, amendments and other matters on which such boards and
commission are required to act under this chapter or under
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required
by the Zoning Board of Appeals and Planning Commission in the exercise of their
duties;
      (6)   Be mindful of the requirements of this chapter while administering
other ordinances pertaining to buildings, subdivisions and the like;
      (7)   Assist applicants with drafting of newspaper notices required by
this chapter; and
      (8)   Turn over to the office manager all application and other fees
received by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.061) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Administrator, see §
150.03
§ 157.122 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   Establishment. There is hereby established a commission known as
the Planning Commission of the village. The Planning Commission shall consist
of five members who shall be qualified as officers of the village. They shall
be the same persons who comprise the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Jurisdiction and duties.
         (a)   The Planning Commission is hereby vested with the following
powers and duties in the administration of this chapter:
            1.   To meet whenever requested by the committee of the Village
Board having jurisdiction over planning and zoning to discuss matters of
interest to that committee;
            2.   To post or publish notices of public hearing, and to hold such
hearings as requested by the applicable statutes of the state, pertaining to
proposed amendments to the regulations imposed and the districts created by
this chapter, pertaining to initial zoning of property upon annexation or in
accordance with annexation agreements, and to proposed special uses, as
established in this chapter;
            3.   To make written reports and recommendations to the Village
Board on any such proposed amendments, zoning upon annexation or proposed
special uses;
            4.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of
the provisions of this chapter and to make reports of its recommendations to
the Village Board;
            5.   To hear and decide all matters which it is required to act
upon under this chapter;
            6.   If requested by the Village Board, to prepare a Comprehensive
Plan; and
            7.   To conduct hearings on adult use permits in accordance with
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   The jurisdiction of the Planning Commission is not limited to
zoning; for example, the Planning Commission has other duties under
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 151.062)
   (B)   (1)   All meetings requested of the Planning Commission shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson, and at such other times as the Commission may
determine. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for in this
chapter shall, at the option of the Chairperson, be given under oath. The
Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s absence, the acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
comply with the Open Meetings Act. The Planning Commission shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of
other official actions. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal
thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Planning Commission shall immediately be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk and shall be a public record.
      (2)   The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum of the Planning
Commission, is necessary to decide in favor of the applicant any matter under
this chapter, or to recommend any amendment or special use to the Village
Board.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may have rules of procedure which shall be
approved from time to time by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 151.063)
(Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2001-014, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 2010-029,
passed 8-2-2010)
§ 157.123 PROCEDURES FOR ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this chapter may be amended from time to time by ordinance. An
amendment shall be granted or denied by the Village Board only after proper
notice and a public hearing before the Planning Commission and a report of its
findings and recommendations has been submitted to the Village Board.
   (B)   Initiation. Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board or by a
resident or owner of property in the village.
   (C)   Processing.
      (1)   A petition for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator in the form at the end of this chapter and designated as Appendix
A. Such petition shall be forwarded from the Zoning Administrator to the
Planning Commission with a request to hold a public hearing. Notice shall be
given of the petition, the relief requested therein, the name of petitioner and
the time and place of the hearing:
         (a)   By publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more
newspapers in general circulation within the village not more than 30, nor less
than 15, days prior to the hearing; and
         (b)   By giving a written notice by first class mail at least 15 days
before the hearing to the owners of the properties located adjacent to the
location for which the amendment is requested.
      (2)   Failure to comply with division (C)(1)(b) above will not void an
amendment.
   (D)   Conduct of Planning Commission hearing and report.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing in
accordance with §
157.122(B) of this chapter. At the hearing, the Planning Commission shall take
testimony as necessary and shall consider as a minimum the following questions,
and answer each question in the affirmative or negative, with comments as
appropriate:
         (a)   Will the proposed change be consistent with existing commitments
and/or planned public improvements?
         (b)   Will the proposed change be beneficial to the neighborhood and
its need for development or redevelopment?
         (c)   Have major land use changes occurred, and/or have major changes
in the condition of the buildings and structures occurred that affect the
original zoning of the subject area?
         (d)   Will the proposed change encourage nearby development without
the need for additional zoning amendments?
         (e)   Will existing servicing utilities and streets have adequate
carrying capacity to accommodate the proposed change?
         (f)   Will the proposed change have an effect on vehicular and
pedestrian traffic?
         (g)   Will the proposed change impact living conditions in the
vicinity by changing environmental factors such as sunlight, air and water
quality or noise?
         (h)   If a Comprehensive Plan has been adopted, is the proposed change
consistent therewith?
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and transmit to the Village
Board a written recommendation regarding the proposed amendment, along with a
copy of its minutes.
   (E)   Action by the Village Board. The Village Board, after receiving the
report of the Planning Commission and without further public hearing, except
for any new matter not presented to the Planning Commission and which the
Village Board deems relevant, may grant by ordinance any proposed amendment or
may refer it back to the recommending body for further consideration. A failure
to pass an ordinance shall be deemed a denial of the petition. Any written
protest against any proposed amendment of the regulations or districts may be
signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be
altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered. If such written protest in such
manner is filed with the Clerk of the village and the applicant and the
applicant’s attorney five days prior to public hearing, the amendment shall not
be passed, except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of the Village Board then
holding office.
(Prior Code, § 151.064) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.124 PROCEDURES FOR INITIAL ZONING PURSUANT TO ANNEXATION AGREEMENT.
   Whenever a proposed annexation agreement containing provisions for zoning is
filed with the village, the proposed agreement shall serve as the petition for
amendment; hearing shall be conducted in accordance with §
157.123 of this chapter. In the event a proposed annexation agreement requests
variations of the provisions of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall
consider the variations requested along with the other zoning issues. The
notices required by §
157.123 of this chapter shall include a notice of the requested variation.
(Prior Code, § 151.065) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.125 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The development and execution of this chapter is based upon
the division of the village into districts, within any one of which the use of
land, buildings and the bulk and location of buildings or structures, as
related to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are special uses which, because of their unique character, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring lands
and upon public need for the particular use of the particular location. Such
special uses fall into two categories:
      (1)   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly-regulated utilities,
or uses traditionally affected with a public interest; or
      (2)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
   (B)   Initiation. A written petition for a special use may be made by any
person, firm or corporation who is the owner of real estate for which such
special use is sought, requesting or intending to request application for a
special use.
   (C)   Processing.
      (1)   A petition for a special use in the form attached at the end of
this section and marked as Appendix B shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. Such petition shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to
the Planning Commission with a request to hold a public hearing. Notice shall
be given of the petition, the relief requested therein, the name of the
petitioner and the time and place of the hearing:
         (a)   By publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more
newspapers in general circulation within the village not more than 30 days, nor
less than 15 days, prior to the hearing; and
         (b)   By mailing a written notice before the hearing to the owners of
the properties located adjacent to the location for which the special use is
requested.
      (2)   Failure to comply with division (C)(1)(b) above shall not void the
special use.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding on the request and
shall submit a recommendation to the Village Board for decision.
   (D)   Findings. Before any special use shall be recommended to the Village
Board, the Planning Commission shall make written findings certifying that the
special use:
      (1)   Is proposed to be operated, designed and located so that the public
health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
      (2)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the vicinity in which it is located.
   (E)   Decisions. The Village Board, after receiving the finding and
recommendation and minutes of the Planning Commission and without further
public hearing, may grant or deny the proposed special use by ordinance or may
refer it back to the Planning Commission for further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 151.066) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.126 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Creation. A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby created for the
village, whose members shall also be the members of the Planning Commission.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five members who shall serve for a
term of five years; provided that, the members first appointed after 8-1-2010
shall serve terms as follows: one shall serve a term of one year; one for two
years; one for three years; one for four years; and one for five years; the
successor to each member so appointed to serve a term of five years. One of the
members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her
appointment. The terms of the members shall commence on the date of their
appointment. The amount of compensation, if any, shall be $35 per meeting,
either of the Zoning Board of Appeals or of the Planning Commission. The
members shall be subject to removal by the President and Board of Trustees of
the village for good cause after public hearing. Members of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall have the powers and duties assigned to the Zoning Board of
Appeals by statute and ordinance.
      (2)   Membership. All appointments to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be made by the Village President subject to approval of the Village Board. One
of the members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson by the Village
President with approval of the Village Board at the time of his or her
appointment. Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for the unexpired
term of any members whose place has become vacant. In the event that the office
of Chairperson is vacated for any reason, the Village President with approval
of the Village Board shall immediately appoint, at his or her option, either
one of the remaining members of the Board, or any member who is appointed to
fill such vacancy on the Board as the new Chairperson.
      (3)   Jurisdiction and authority. The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby
vested with the powers as granted by the statutes of the state and this chapter
as follows:
         (a)   To hear and recommend appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator pertaining to
conformance with requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   To hear and recommend variations from the terms provided in this
chapter in the manner and subject to the standards set forth in this section;
and
         (c)   To hear and decide all other matters upon which it is required
to pass under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.067)
   (B)   Procedures of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   All meetings requested of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held
at the call of its Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may
determine. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for in this
chapter shall, at the option of the Chairperson, be given under oath. The
Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s absence, the acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
comply with the Open Meetings Act. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall also
keep records of other official actions. Every, rule, regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall immediately be filed in the
office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
      (2)   The concurring vote of four members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
is necessary to reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in
favor of the applicant any matter under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.068)
(Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2003-012, passed 5-5-2003; Ord. 2010-029,
passed 8-2-2010)
§ 157.127 APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation. An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by
any person, firm or corporation or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission, aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination under this chapter by the Zoning Administrator or other
authorized official of the village.
   (B)   Processing. An appeal shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator,
who shall forward such petition with all exhibits and papers constituting the
record upon which the action was taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
processing in accordance with the applicable statutes of the state. The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall within 30 days fix a time for the hearing of the appeal
and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the appeal. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been
filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this
event, the proceedings shall not be stayed, or otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by a Circuit Court
on application and on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and
on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 151.069) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.128 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Initiation. A written petition for a variance, a copy of which is at
the end of the chapter in Appendix C, may be made by any person, firm or
corporation which is the owner of real estate for which such variation is
sought.
   (B)   Processing.
      (1)   A petition for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator Such petition shall be forwarded to the Zoning Board of Appeals
with a request to hold a public hearing. Notice shall be given of the petition,
the relief requested therein, the name of the petitioner and the time and place
of the hearing:
         (a)   By publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more
newspapers in general circulation within the village not more than 30, nor less
than 15, days prior to the hearing; and
         (b)   By giving a written notice by mail before the hearing to the
owners of the properties located adjacent to the location for which the
variation is requested.
      (2)   Failure to comply with division (B)(1)(b) above will not void the
proposed variance.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend variance of the
provisions of this chapter as authorized in this section unless it shall have
made findings based upon the evidence presented to it that all of the following
conditions apply:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in making the foregoing determination
may take into consideration the extent to which the following facts, favorable
to the applicant, have been established by the evidence:
         (a)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of regulation were to be carried out;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the petition for variance is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         (c)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         (d)   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
         (e)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         (f)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may require such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the
injurious effect of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood, and
to implement the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Authorized variations. Variations from the regulations of this chapter
may be recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals only in accordance with the
standards set forth in this section and only in the following instances:
      (1)   To permit a height greater than allowed;
      (2)   To permit a yard less than the yard required by the applicable
regulation;
      (3)   To permit the use of a lot located in a residence district having
insufficient area and width for a single-family dwelling; provided, such lot is
of record on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section;
      (4)   To permit the use of any lot not covered above, for a use otherwise
prohibited solely because of insufficient area of the lot;
      (5)   To permit the same off-street parking spaces to qualify as required
spaces for two or more uses; provided that, the maximum use of such facility by
each user does not take place during the same hours of the same days of the
week;
      (6)   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading
requirements;
      (7)   To authorize a use of land where an amendment to the village zoning
district classification causes practical difficulties or hardships;
      (8)   To vary requirements for fences; and
      (9)   To vary setback requirements, in an area permitting duplex
structures, to allow a duplex structure to be situated on more than one
separately platted lot, but subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The duplex structure will be bisected by the lot line, and each
dwelling unit will be located exclusively on one lot, except for a party wall
which is bisected by the lot line;
         (b)   A party wall agreement or other appropriate covenant will be
recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of the county with respect to both lots,
which will provide for the perpetual maintenance of the party wall and
reconstruction of the structure in event of fire or casualty;
         (c)   The variance will cease to exist if a structure containing one
or more dwelling units, other than a duplex structure bisected by the lot line
and meeting the requirements of this section, is constructed on either or both
lots;
         (d)   The duplex structure would otherwise meet the minimum lot area
requirement and all other requirements of this chapter, including setback
requirements, if the two lots on which it is located, taken together, were
considered a single lot; and
         (e)   If a lot is divided, a tract survey is prepared, approved and
recorded in accordance with the subdivision regulations of the village.
   (E)   Decisions.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, at the conclusion of the public
hearing, promptly thereafter shall submit a report of its findings and
recommendations on each petition to the Village Board.
      (2)   The Village Board, after receiving the report of the Zoning Board
of Appeals and without further public hearing, except for any new matter not
presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals and which the Village Board deems
relevant, may grant or deny by majority vote and proposed variation or may
refer it back to the recommending body for further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 151.070) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2003-028, passed
10-6-2003)
§ 157.129 FEES FOR VARIANCES, APPEALS AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any application for a variance or appeal filed by or on behalf of the
owner or owners of the property affected shall be accompanied by a fee of $200.
   (B)   Any application for an amendment or special use filed by or on behalf
of the owner or owners of the property affected shall be accompanied by a fee
of $200.
   (C)   Any application for any action, filed by an officer, board or
commission of the village, not on behalf of any specific private interest,
shall not be accompanied by any fee.
(Prior Code, § 151.071) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 157.130 NUISANCES.
   Every structure and lot which is in violation of this chapter is hereby
declared a nuisance. The village may apply to a Court of competent jurisdiction
for equitable relief to restrain, enjoin or abate any such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 151.073) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
APPENDIX A: PETITION FOR ZONING AMENDMENTS
For_a_printable_PDF_of_Appendix_A,_click_here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1873.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1875.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 151.064) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
APPENDIX B: PETITION FOR SPECIAL USE
For_a_printable_PDF_of_Appendix_B,_click_here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1885.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1887.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 151.066) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996)
APPENDIX C: PETITION FOR ZONING VARIANCE
For_a_printable_PDF_of_Appendix_C,_click_here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1889.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/07454e2b698242433660423a7c75daaae05d6995/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1891.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 151.070) (Ord. 96-010, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2003-028, passed
10-6-2003)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                    Code Section
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.          30.25;
                              30.53
5 ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.        35.30;
                              35.33
5 ILCS 140/7                  35.30
5 ILCS 140/7.5                35.30
5 ILCS 140/11.5               35.42
5 ILCS 275/1                  32.08
5 ILCS 315/3                  31.045
5 ILCS 430/5-65               35.70
5 ILCS 430/15-10              35.70
10 ILCS 5/1-3                 31.045
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4               31.045
10 ILCS 5/9-3                 31.045
15 ILCS 205/ 7                35.30
20 ILCS 3305/4                32.01
20 ILCS 3305/11               32.08
30 ILCS 805/8.31 et seq.      111.24
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.         92.026
35 ILCS 636/1 et seq.         115.01
65 ILCS                       70.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1               156.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3               Adopting Ordinance
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9               130.075;
                              130.119
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1               151.13
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5            30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5            30.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40           31.091
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90           31.068;
                              31.073
65 ILCS 5/4-4-1               30.04
65 ILCS 5/4-4-2               30.04
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4            33.035
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6              32.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12            156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2             156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8             156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2             156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3             91.01
65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.1         50.004
65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.2         50.004
65 ILCS 5/11-125-4            55.01
75 ILCS 5/1-0.1 et seq.       34.01;
                              34.02
75 ILCS 5/4-7                 34.03
75 ILCS 5/4-15                34.03
210 ILCS 115/1–115/26       112.08
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.         92.040
220 ILCS 65/4                 92.029
225 ILCS 441/1-1 et seq.      151.09
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.         118.46
235 ILCS 5/1-1                111.01
415 ILCS 5                    156.20
415 ILCS 5/1                  55.02
415 ILCS 5/14.2               55.01
415 ILCS 5/14.3               55.01
415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.         55.02
430 ILCS 85/2-1               118.26
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          90.01
510 ILCS 5/15                 90.35
510 ILCS 5/15.3               90.38
510 ILCS 50                   130.085
510 ILCS 70                   130.085
520 ILCS 5                    130.085
560 ILCS 550/1 et seq.        132.02;
                              132.03
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.      92.026
625 ILCS 5/1-101.5            91.01
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.      91.02;
                              91.03
625 ILCS 5/6-101              130.096
625 ILCS 5/6-303              130.096
625 ILCS 5/11-207             70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-208             70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-501             130.096
625 ILCS 5/11-503             130.096
625 ILCS 5/11-1303            71.02
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et. seq.       130.096
720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et seq.     130.096
720 ILCS 5/24-1               130.096
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5             130.096
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1             130.096
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3)–(a)(10111.18
720 ILCS 5/36-1               130.096
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.        130.096
720 ILCS 570/100              132.01—
                              132.03
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.      130.096
720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.        132.01
740 ILCS 174/15(a)            35.70
740 ILCS 174/15(b)            35.70
765 ILCS 205/0.01             155.006
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.     155.005
765 ILCS 205/2                156.22
765 ILCS 735/0.01 et seq.     50.009
775 ILCS 5/6-101              35.70
820 ILCS 130/5                35.30
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2013 Code
Prior Code        2013 Code
10.001            10.01
10.002            10.02
10.003            10.03
10.004            10.04
10.005            10.05
10.006            10.06
10.007            10.07
10.008            10.08
10.009            10.09
10.010            10.10
11.001            11.01
11.002            11.02
11.003            11.03
11.004            11.04
11.005            11.05
11.006            11.06
11.007            11.07
11.009            11.08
11.010            11.09
11.011            11.10
11.012            11.11
Ch. 30, App. A    30.65
30.001            30.01
30.002            30.02
30.003            30.03
30.004            30.04
30.005            30.05
30.010            30.20
30.012            30.21
30.013            30.22
30.014            30.23
30.015            30.24
30.016            30.25
30.017            30.26
30.018            30.27
30.019            30.28
30.020            30.29
30.023            30.31
30.026            30.46
30.028            30.47
30.029            30.48
30.030            30.49
30.031            30.50
30.032            30.51
30.033            30.52
30.034            30.53
31.002            31.066
31.003            31.067
31.004            31.068
31.005            31.069
31.006            31.070
31.007            31.071
31.008            31.072
31.009            31.073
31.011            31.074
31.012            31.075
31.015            31.090
31.016            31.091
31.017            31.092
31.018            31.093
31.019            31.094
31.020            31.095
31.021            31.096
31.022            31.097
31.023            31.098
32.001            31.001
32.002            31.002
32.003            31.003
32.004            31.004
32.005            31.005
32.006            31.006
32.007            31.007
32.008            31.008
32.009            31.009
32.011            31.010
32.013            31.011
32.015            31.025
32.016            31.026
32.017            31.027
32.018            31.028
32.019            31.029
32.020            31.030
32.021            31.031
32A.001           31.045
32A.002           31.046
32A.003           31.047
32A.004           31.048
32A.005           31.049
32A.006           31.050
32A.007           31.999
33.005            35.01
33.006            35.02
33.007            35.03
33.008            35.04
33.009            35.05
33.010            35.06
33.011            35.07
33.012            35.08
33.013            35.09
33.014            35.10
33.015            35.11
33.016            35.12
33.017            35.13
33.018            35.14
33.019            35.15
33.020            35.16
33.021            35.17
33.022            35.18
35.001            32.01
35.002            32.02
35.003            32.03
35.004            32.04
35.005            32.05
35.006            32.06
35.007            32.07
35.008            32.08
35.009            32.09
35.010            32.10
35.011            32.11
35.012            32.12
35.013            32.13
35.014            32.14
37.001            33.015
37.003            33.030
37.004            33.031
37.008.1          33.045
37.009            33.046
37.010            33.047
37.011            33.048
37.012            33.065
37.013            33.066
37.022            33.001
37.023            33.002
37.024            33.003
38.001            31.115
38.002            31.116
38.003            31.117
38.004            31.118
38.010            31.130
38.011            31.131
38.012            31.132
38.013            31.133
38.020            31.012
39.001            34.01
39.002            34.02
39.003            34.03
39.004            34.04
39.005            34.05
40.001            35.30
40.002            35.31
40.003            35.32
40.004            35.33
40.005            35.34
40.006            35.35
40.007            35.36
40.008            35.37
40.009            35.38
40.010            35.39
40.011            35.40
40.012            35.41
40.013            35.42
40.014            35.43
40.015            35.44
40.016            35.45
40.017            35.46
40.018            35.47
41.001            34.20
41.002            34.21
41.003            34.22
50.001            51.015
50.002            51.016
50.003            51.017
50.004            51.018
50.005            51.030
50.006            51.031
50.007            51.032
50.008            51.033
50.009            51.034
50.010            51.035
50.011            51.036
50.012            51.037
50.013            51.050
50.014            51.051
50.015            51.052
50.016            51.053
50.017            51.054
50.018            51.055
50.019            51.056
50.020            51.057
50.021            51.058
50.022            51.059
50.023            51.060
50.024            51.061
50.025            51.062
50.026            51.075
50.027            51.076
50.028            51.077
50.028.1          51.078
50.029            51.079
50.030            51.080
50.031            51.081
50.032            51.082
50.033            51.083
50.034            51.084
50.035            51.085
50.036            51.086
50.037            51.087
50.038            51.002
50.039            51.100
50.040            51.101
50.041            51.102
50.045            51.001
50B.001           52.01
50B.015           52.15
50B.016           52.16
50B.021           52.17
50B.030           52.30
50B.031           52.31
50C.001           50.001
50C.002           50.002
50C.003           50.003
50C.004           50.004
50C.005           50.004
50C.006           50.005
50C.007           50.006
50C.008           50.007
50C.009           50.008
50C.010           50.009;
                  50.999
50C.011           50.010
50C.012           50.011
50C.013           50.012
50C.014           50.013
50E.001           50.025
50E.002           50.026
50E.003           50.027
50E.004           50.028
50E.005           50.029
50F.001           50.040
50F.002           50.041
50F.003           50.042
50G.001           50.055
50G.002           50.056
50G.003           50.057
50G.004           50.058
50G.005           50.059
50G.006           50.060
50G.007           50.061
50G.008           50.062
50G.009           50.063
50G.010           50.064
50G.011           50.065
50G.012           50.066
50G.013           50.067
50G.014           50.068
50G.015           50.069
50G.016           50.070
51.001            53.01
51.004            53.03
51.005            53.04
51.006            53.05
51.007            53.06
51.008            53.07
51.009            53.08
51.013            53.09
51.014            53.10
51.015            53.11
51.016            53.12
51.017            53.13
51.018            53.14
51.019            53.15
51.020            53.16
52.002            54.01
52.003            54.02
52.007            54.03
52.009            54.04
52.013            54.05
52.015            54.07
52.016            54.08
54.001            92.060
54.002            92.061
54.003            92.062
54.004            92.063
55.001            55.01
55.002            55.02
55.003            55.03
55.004            55.04
55.005            55.05
56.001            35.60
56.002            35.61
56.003            35.62
56.004            35.63
70.001            70.01
70.002            70.02
70.005            70.15
70.006            70.16
70.010            Ch. 73, Schd. I
70.011            Ch. 73, Schd. II
70.020            Ch. 73, Schd. III
70.021            Ch. 73, Schd. III
70.022            Ch. 73, Schd. III
70.023            Ch. 73, Schd. III
70.024            Ch. 73, Schd. III
70.999            70.99
Ch. 71, Schd. I   Ch. 73, Schd. IV
Ch. 71, Schd. II  Ch. 73, Schd. V
Ch. 71, Schd. III Ch. 73, Schd. VI
72.001            71.01
72.002            71.02
72.003            71.03
72.004            71.04
72.999            71.99
Ch. 73, Schd. I   Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 73, Schd. II  Ch. 74, Schd. II
Ch. 73, Schd. III Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 73, Schd. IV  Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 73, Schd. V   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
Ch. 73, Schd. VI  Ch. 74, Schd. V
74.001            70.30
74.002            70.31
74.003            70.32
74.004            70.33
74.005            70.34
74.006            70.35
74.007            70.36
74.008            70.37
74.009            70.38
74.010            70.39
74.011            70.40
76.001            92.001
76.002            92.002
76.003            92.003
76.004            92.004
76.005            92.005
76.006            92.006
76.007            92.007
76.008            92.008
77.001            72.01
77.002            Ch. 73, Schd. VII
77.003            72.02
77.004            72.03
77.005            72.99
77.006            72.04
77.007            72.05
78.001            92.025
78.002            92.026
78.003            92.027
78.004            92.028
78.005            92.029
78.006            92.030
78.007            92.031
78.008            92.032
78.009            92.033
78.010            92.034
78.011            92.035
78.012            92.036
78.013            92.037
78.014            92.038
78.015            92.039
78.016            92.040
78.017            92.041
78.018            92.042
78.019            92.043
78.020            92.044
78.021            92.045
78.023            92.046
78.024            92.047
Ch. 90, App. A    90.21
90-1-1            90.01
90-1-2            90.02
90-1-3            90.03
90-1-4            90.04
90-1-5            90.05
90-1-6            90.06
90-1-7            90.07
90-1-8            90.08
90-1-9            90.09
90-1-10           90.10
90-1-11           90.11
90-1-12           90.12
90-1-13           90.13
90-1-14           90.14
90-1-15           90.15
90-1-16           90.16
90-1-17           90.17
90-1-18           90.18
90-1-19           90.19
90-1-20           90.20
90-1-21           90.21
90-1-22           90.22
90-1-23           90.35
90-1-24           90.36
90-1-25           90.37
90-1-26           90.38
90-1-27           90.23
90-2-1            90.99
90-2-2            90.99
90-2-3            90.99
92.001            91.01
92.002            91.02
92.003            91.03
92.004            91.04
92.005            91.05
92.006            91.06
92.007            91.99
93.001            151.25
93.002            151.26
93.003            151.27
93.004            151.28;
                  151.99
94.001            150.01
94.002            150.02
94.003            150.03
95.001            93.01
95.006            93.02
95.007            93.03
95.008            93.04
95.009            93.05
95.010            93.06
95.110            93.07
95.120            93.08
95.130            93.09
95.140            93.10
95.150            93.11
95.170            93.12
95.190            93.13
110.001           111.01
110.002           111.02
110.003           111.15
110.004           111.16
110.005           111.17
110.006           111.18
110.007           111.19
110.008           111.20
110.009           111.21
110.010           111.22
110.010A          111.23
110.010B          111.24
110.010C          111.25
110.011           111.26
110.011A          111.27
110.012           111.28
110.013           111.29
110.014           111.30
110.015           111.45
110.016           111.46
110.017           111.47
110.018           111.48
110.019           111.49
110.020           111.50
110.021           111.51
110.022           111.52
110.023           111.53
110.024           111.54
110.025           111.55
110.026           111.56
110.027           111.57
110.028           111.99
111.001           112.01
111.002           112.02
111.003           112.03
111.004           112.04
111.005           112.05
111.006           112.06
111.007           112.07
111.008           112.08
111.009           112.09
111.010           112.10
111.011           112.11
111.012           112.12
112.001           113.20
112.002           113.21
112.003           113.22
112.004           113.23
112.005           113.24
112.006           113.01
112.007           113.02
112.008           113.03
112.009           113.25
112.010           113.26
112.011           113.04
112.012           113.05
112.999           113.99
113.001           114.01
113.002           114.02
113.003           114.03
113.004           114.04
113.005           114.05
113.006           114.06
113.007           114.07
113.008           114.08
113.009           114.09
113.999           114.99
114.001           152.01
114.002           152.02
114.003           152.03
114.004           152.04
114.005           152.05
114.006           152.06
114.007           152.07
114.008           152.08
114.009           152.09
114.010           152.10
114.012           152.11
115.001           118.01
115.002           118.02
115.004           118.04
115.005           118.05
115.006           118.06
115.007           118.07
115.008           118.08
115.009           118.09
115.010           118.10
115.011           118.11
115.013           118.12
115.020           118.25
115.021           118.26
115.022           118.27
115.023           118.28
115.024           118.29
115.025           118.30
115.026           118.31
115.027           118.32
115.028           118.33
115.029           118.34
115.040           119.01
115.042           119.02
115.043           119.03
115.044           119.04
115.045           119.05
115.046           119.06
115.047           119.07
115.048           119.99
115.049           119.08
117.001           116.01
117.002           116.02
117.003           116.03
117.004           116.04
117.005           116.05
117.006           116.06
117.007           116.07
117.008           116.08
117.009           116.09
117.010           116.09
117.011           116.10
117.012           116.11
117.013           116.12
117.014           116.13
117.015           116.14
117.016           116.15;
                  116.99
118.001           117.01
118.002           117.02
118.003           117.03
118.004           117.04
118.005           117.05
118.006           117.06
118.007           117.07
118.008           117.99
130.001           130.001
130.002           130.002
130.002.1         130.003
130.002.2         130.004
130.003           130.005
130.005           130.007
130.006           130.008
130.007.1         130.021;
                  130.999
130.008           130.022
130.009           130.023
130.010           130.024
130.012           130.025
130.013           130.026;
                  130.999
130.014           130.027
130.017           130.055
130.018           130.056
130.019           130.057
130.020           130.058
130.021           130.059
130.022           130.070
130.023           130.071
130.024           130.072
130.025           130.073
130.026           130.074
130.027           130.999
130.028           130.999
130.998           130.999
130.999           130.999
131.101           131.001
131.102           131.002
131.103           131.035
131.104           131.036
131.105           131.037
131.106           131.038
131.107           131.039
131.108           131.040
131.109           131.041
131.110           131.042
131.111           131.043
131.112           131.044
131.113           131.045
131.114           131.046
131.115           131.047
131.116           131.048
131.117           131.049
131.118           131.050
131.119           131.051;
                  131.999
131.120           131.052
131.121           131.053
131.122           131.003
131.201           131.004
131.202           131.005
131.203           131.006
131.204           131.007
131.205           131.008
131.206           131.009
131.207           131.010
131.208           131.011
131.209           131.012
131.210           131.013
131.211           131.014
131.212           131.015
131.301           131.016
131.302           131.017
131.303           131.018
131.304           131.019
131.305           131.020
131.306           131.021
131.307           131.022
131.308           131.023
131.309           131.024
131.401           131.999
131A.001          131.065
131A.002          131.066
131A.003          131.067
131A.004          131.068
131A.005          131.069
131A.006          131.070
131A.007          131.071
131A.008          131.072
131A.009          131.999
132.001           132.01
132.002           132.02
132.003           132.03
132.004           132.04
132.005           132.99
132.006           132.05
132.007           132.06
Ch. 150, App. A-1 155.011
Ch. 150, App. A-2 Ch. 155, App. A
Ch. 150, App. A-3 Ch. 155, App. B
Ch. 150, App. A-4 155.012
150.001           155.001
150.002           155.002
150.003           155.003
150.004           155.004
150.005           155.005
150.006           155.006
150.007           155.007
150.008           155.025
150.009           155.026
150.010           155.027
150.011           155.028
150.012           155.029
150.013           155.075
150.014           155.076
150.015           155.077
150.016           155.078
150.017           155.079
150.018           155.080
150.019           155.040
150.020           155.041
150.021           155.042
150.022           155.043
150.023           155.055
150.024           155.056
150.025           155.057
150.026           155.058
150.027           155.059
150.028           155.060
150.029           155.061
150.030           155.062
150.030           155.095
150.032           155.096
150.033           155.097
150.034           155.098
150.035           155.099
150.036           155.100
150.037           155.101
150.038           155.102
150.039           155.115
150.040           155.116
150.041           155.117
150.042           155.118
150.043           155.119
150.044           155.120
150.045           155.121
150.046           155.122
150.047           155.123
150.048           155.124
150.049           155.125
150.050           155.126
150.051           155.127
150.052           155.128
150.053           155.140
150.054           155.141
150.055           155.142
150.056           155.143
150.057           155.144
150.058           155.145
150.059           155.146
150.060           155.147
150.061           155.160
150.062           155.161
150.063           155.162
150.064           155.163
150.065           155.164
150.066           155.165
150.067           155.166
150.068           155.167
150.069           155.180
150.070           155.181
150.071           155.182
150.072           155.183
150.073           155.008
150.074           155.009
150.075           155.010
151.001           157.001
151.002           157.002
151.003           157.003
151.005           157.004
151.006           157.005
151.007           157.006
151.008           157.007
151.009           157.008
151.010           157.009
151.011           157.010
151.012           157.011
151.015           157.025
151.016           157.026
151.017           157.027
151.018           157.028
151.019           157.029
151.020           157.030
151.021           157.031
151.025           157.045
151.026           157.046
151.027           157.047
151.027(a)        157.048
151.028           157.049
151.030           157.051
151.031           157.052
151.032           157.053
151.035           157.065
151.036           157.066
151.037           157.067
151.037A          157.068
151.038           157.069
151.039           157.070
151.040           157.071
151.041           157.072
151.045           157.085
151.046           157.086
151.047           157.087
151.048           157.088
151.049           157.089
151.050           157.090
151.051           157.091
151.055           157.105
151.056           157.106
151.057           157.107
151.060           157.120
151.061           157.121
151.062           157.122
151.063           157.122
151.064           157.123;
                  Ch. 157, App. A
151.065           157.124
151.066           157.125;
                  Ch. 157, App. B
151.067           157.126
151.068           157.126
151.069           157.127
151.070           157.128;
                  Ch. 157, App. C
151.071           157.129
151.073           157.130
152.001           156.01
152.002           156.02
152.003           156.03
152.004           156.04
152.005           156.05
152.006           156.20
152.007           156.21
152.008           156.22
152.009           156.23
152.010           156.24
152.011           156.06
152.012           156.07
152.013           156.99
152.014           156.08
152.015           156.09
153.001           110.01
153.002           110.02
153.003           110.03
153.004           110.04
153.005           110.05
153.006           110.06
153.007           110.07
153.008           110.08
153.009           110.09
153.010           110.10
153.011           110.11
153.012           110.99
153.013           110.12
153.014           110.13
154.001           154.01
154.002           154.02
154.003           154.03
154.004           154.04
154.005           154.05
154.006           154.06
154.007           154.07
154.008           154.08
154.009           154.09
154.010           154.10
154.011           154.11
154.012           154.12
154.013           154.13
155.001           153.01
155.002           153.02
155.003           153.03
155.004           153.04
155.005           153.05
155.006           153.06
155.007           153.07
155.008           153.99
155.009           153.08
155.010           153.09
156.001           151.01
156.002           151.02
156.003           151.03
156.004           151.04
156.005           151.05
156.006           151.06
156.007           151.07
156.008           151.08
156.009           151.09
156.010           151.99
156.011           151.10
156.012           151.11
156.013           151.12
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     113.01—
                     113.05;
169      - -         113.20—
                     113.26;
                     113.99
                     91.01—
178      - -         91.06;
                     91.99
                     113.01—
                     113.05;
89-004   - -         113.20—
                     113.26;
                     113.99
                     31.045—
99-018   - -         31.050;
                     31.999
2002-06  - -         50.055—
                     50.070
2003-003 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
2003-032 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
                     156.01—
                     156.09;
2004-010 - -         156.20—
                     156.24;
                     156.99
2004-021 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
2005-005 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
2005-010 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
05-      - -         115.01
2006-001 - -         50.055—
                     50.070
73       5-8-1950    150.01
74       5-22-1950   71.02;
                     71.99
                     70.01;
                     70.02;
                     70.15;
83       7-7-1952    70.16;
                     70.99;
                     71.01;
                     71.03;
                     71.99
121      9-2-1958    53.03—
                     53.15
126      - -1960     70.99
132      6-19-1961   30.21
168      1-16-1967   71.03;
                     71.99
                     114.01—
181      1-16-1968   114.09;
                     114.99
                     157.001—
                     157.010;
                     157.025—
                     157.030;
                     157.045—
                     157.047;
                     157.049—
176A     2-6-1968    157.053;
                     157.065—
                     157.067;
                     157.069—
                     157.072;
                     157.085—
                     157.091;
                     157.105—
                     157.107
                     54.01—
72-012   12-5-1972   54.05;
                     54.07;
                     54.08
73-003   4-3-1973    112.01—
                     112.12
74-002   3-19-1974   70.30—
                     70.40
74-003   3-19-1974   70.01
74-004   3-19-1974   71.99
74-012   7-2-1974    157.007
75-005   4-1-1975    11.11
75-008   7-15-1975   Ch. 73, Schd. I
78-011   10-3-1978   53.01
79-004   4-3-1979    30.52
                     130.070—
81-007   6-2-1981    130.074;
                     130.999
82-001   1-5-1982    Ch. 73, Schd. II
83-002   1-18-1983   30.52
84-020   2-18-1984   30.52
84-007   6-5-1984    92.001—
                     92.008
84-010   6-19-1984   157.011
84-015   8-7-1984    30.27
                     51.001;
                     51.002;
                     51.015—
                     51.018;
                     51.030—
                     51.037;
88-003   1-19-1988   51.050—
                     51.062;
                     51.075—
                     51.077;
                     51.079—
                     51.087;
                     51.100—
                     51.102
                     52.01;
88-005   1-19-1988   52.15—
                     52.17
88-007   7-5-1988    35.01—
                     35.17
88-012   9-20-1988   53.16
                     118.01;
                     118.02;
                     118.04—
                     118.12;
88-014   11-15-1988  118.25—
                     118.34;
                     118.99;
                     119.01—
                     119.08;
                     119.99
                     130.001;
                     130.002;
                     130.005;
                     130.007;
                      
88-015   11-15-1988  130.008;
                     130.022—
                     130.027;
                     130.055—
                     130.059;
                     130.999
89-003   1-7-1989    31.075
89-009   4-5-1989    52.30;
                     52.31
                     33.001—
                     33.003;
                     33.015;
                     33.030;
89-009   5-2-1989    33.031;
                     33.046—
                     33.048;
                     33.065;
                     33.066
89-013   10-3-1989   Ch. 73, Schd. V
                     131.001;
                     131.002;
                     131.004—
                     131.014;
90-002   5-15-1990   131.016—
                     131.023;
                     131.035—
                     131.052;
                     131.999
90-003   9-18-1990   52.15
90-004   9-18-1990   52.17
90-005   10-16-1990  52.17
91-015   10-1-1991   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I;
92-006   7-21-1992   Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. III
93-004   4-14-1993   157.026
93-010   5-4-1993    30.25
                     111.01;
                     111.02;
                     111.15—
                     111.22;
93-014   5-24-1993   111.26;
                     111.28—
                     111.30;
                     111.45—
                     111.57;
                     111.99
                     157.004;
                     157.007;
93-038   11-12-1993  157.046—
                     157.050;
                     157.052;
                     157.053
                     113.01—
                     113.05;
94-005   3-16-1994   113.20—
                     113.26;
                     113.99
94-020   6-14-1994   111.26
94-021   6-20-1994   111.46
94-028   10-3-1994   111.26
94-029   10-17-1994  93.01—
                     93.13
94-031   11-7-1994   55.01—
                     55.05
94-033   11-7-1994   Ch. 73, Schd. VI
94-037   12-19-1994  111.45
95-003   1-30-1995   30.52
95-011   5-15-1995   111.45
95-018   9-22-1995   30.25
95-020   10-2-1995   31.030
95-022   10-2-1995   92.060—
                     92.063
                     50.001—
95-024   10-16-1995  50.012;
                     50.999
                     130.002—
95-025   10-16-1995  130.004;
                     130.999
95-021   11-6-1995   31.031
96-004   2-5-1996    111.26
                     155.001—
                     155.010;
                     155.025—
                     155.029;
                     155.040—
                     155.043;
                     155.055—
                     155.062;
                     155.075—
96-006   2-5-1996    155.080;
                     155.095—
                     155.102;
                     155.115—
                     155.128;
                     155.140—
                     155.147;
                     155.160—
                     155.167;
                     155.180—
                     155.183
                     157.120—
                     157.130;
96-010   4-1-1996    Ch. 157, App. A;
                     Ch. 157, App. B;
                     Ch. 157, App. C
96-015   5-6-1996    31.130—
                     31.133
96-023   7-1-1996    30.25
96-034   12-2-1996   34.01—
                     34.05
96-036   12-2-1996   157.003;
                     157.006
96-037   12-2-1996   157.003
97-001   1-6-1997    Ch. 74, Schd. I
97-004   2-17-1997   131.053
97-005   3-3-1997    150.02;
                     150.03
97-009   5-5-1997    111.26
97-020   8-18-1997   50.004;
                     50.005
97-021   9-2-1997    33.045
97-025   10-6-1997   35.18
97-027   10-6-1997   130.021;
                     130.999
97-035   11-3-1997   51.078
97-040   12-1-1997   130.021;
                     130.999
                     72.01—
98-001   1-5-1998    72.05;
                     72.99;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. VII
98-006   2-16-1998   Ch. 74, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. V
98-007   2-16-1998   50.025—
                     50.029
98-008   2-16-1998   50.040—
                     50.042
                     151.25—
98-016   4-20-1998   151.28;
                     151.99
98-017   4-20-1998   50.005;
                     50.013
98-032   6-15-1998   Ch. 73, Schd. IV
98-036   8-17-1998   152.01—
                     152.11
98-046   10-19-1998  111.26
99-051   11-5-1998   31.115—
                     31.118
98-060   11-16-1998  92.025—
                     92.047
99-005   3-1-1999    154.01—
                     154.13
                     131.065—
99-011   4-28-1999   131.072;
                     131.999
99-020   5-25-1999   30.25
99-025   7-6-1999    131.069;
                     131.070
99-033   8-16-1999   Ch. 74, Schd. I
99-046   10-4-1999   111.57
99-052   12-20-1999  Ch. 73, Schd. I
99-053   12-20-1999  Ch. 73, Schd. III
2000-003 2-7-2000    Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2000-04  2-21-2000   34.20—
                     34.22
2000-008 3-6-2000    130.021;
                     130.999
                     119.01—
2000-24  7-3-2000    119.08;
                     119.99
2000-025 7-3-2000    114.07;
                     118.31
2000-026 7-3-2000    131.070
                     153.01—
                     153.04;
2000-30  7-17-2000   153.06—
                     153.09;
                     153.99
2000-043 11-20-2000  111.45
                     132.01—
02-012   4-15-2001   132.06;
                     132.99
                     110.01—
                     110.13;
2001-014 8-6-2001    110.99;
                     157.086;
                     157.122
01-015   9-4-2001    Ch. 74, Schd. V
01-019   10-1-2001   131.069
2001-020 11-15-2001  Ch. 73, Schd. IV
                     91.01—
01-029   12-12-2001  91.06;
                     91.99
01-028   12-17-2001  Ch. 74, Schd. II
2002-11  4-1-2002    50.004;
                     52.15
02-014   5-6-2002    Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2002-033 10-21-2002  Ch. 74, Schd. I
2002-036 12-16-2002  50.004;
                     50.005
                     91.01—
03-002   1-6-2003    91.06;
                     91.99
2003-004 2-3-2003    71.04
2003-008 4-21-2003   30.01;
                     30.20
03-010   5-5-2003    111.26
2003-012 5-5-2003    157.126
03-014   6-2-2003    111.26
2003-028 10-6-2003   157.128;
                     Ch. 157, App. A
2003-029 10-6-2003   157.003;
                     157.068
2004-006 3-15-2004   111.26
                     31.045—
2004-013 5-3-2004    31.050;
                     31.999
2004-019 6-21-2004   50.010
2004-025 8-2-2004    Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2004-027 10-4-2004   131.070
2004-030 12-20-2004  Ch. 74, Schd. I
                     111.01;
2005-026 10-17-2005  111.26;
                     111.45;
                     111.52
                     90.01—
                     90.23;
2006-014 7-10-2006   90.35—
                     90.38;
                     90.99
2006-015 7-17-2006   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2006-027 12-18-2006  111.52
2007-007 3-19-2007   52.15
2007-012 5-7-2007    Ch. 73, Schd. I
                     151.01—
2007-016 5-21-2007   151.12;
                     151.99
2007-017 5-21-2007   111.27
                     156.01—
                     156.09;
2007-018 6-4-2007    156.20—
                     156.24;
                     156.99
2007-019 6-4-2007    131.024
2007-028 7-16-2007   155.077
2007-034 11-19-2007  Ch. 74, Schd. I
2007-036 12-3-2007   111.45
2007-038 12-3-2007   111.24
                     50.055—
2008-001 1-21-2008   50.069;
                     52.15
                     111.17;
                     111.21;
                     111.24;
                     111.25;
2008-016 5-19-2008   111.27;
                     111.28;
                     111.45;
                     111.50;
                     111.52
                     116.01—
2008-018 6-2-2008    116.15;
                     116.99
2008-020 6-16-2008   157.003
2008-029 9-2-2008    130.070
2008-031 9-15-2008   31.012
2008-032 10-6-2008   Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. V
2008-033 10-6-2008   Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2008-038 11-3-2008   111.24;
                     111.45
2009-002 2-16-2009   151.09
2009-004 2-16-2009   35.60—
                     35.63
                     50.003;
2009-012 5-18-2009   50.004;
                     50.007
2009-016 6-1-2009    111.23;
                     111.26
                     70.34;
                     72.01;
                     72.02;
09-025   8-3-2009    Ch. 73, Sch. VII;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2009-028 10-19-2009  131.003
2009-036 12-7-2009   31.074
2010-001 1-4-2010    35.30—
                     35.47
2010-005 3-1-2010    50.070
2010-012 5-3-2010    50.070
2010-017 6-7-2010    30.53;
                     30.65
2010-018 6-7-2010    153.01;
                     153.02
2010-019 6-7-2010    155.060
2010-023 6-21-2010   31.115
2010-029 8-2-2010    157.122;
                     157.126
2010-037 12-6-2010   32.01—
                     32.14
2011-004 3-7-2011    30.47
                     151.01;
2011-003 3-21-2011   151.07;
                     151.08
2011-012 6-6-2011    131.015;
                     131.999
2011-013 6-20-2011   32.03—
                     32.06
                     117.01—
2011-016 6-20-2011   117.07;
                     117.99
2011-018 7-5-2011    131.068;
                     131.070
12-002   2-20-2012   90.01;
                     90.03
                     118.45—
12-010   6-18-2012   118.47;
                     118.99
13-      - -2013     30.25
13-001   1-22-2013   Ch. 73, Sch. IX
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II;
13-014   6-17-2013   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
13-016   8-19-2013   31.013
13-022   11-18-2013  151.13
13-024   12-2-2013   Adopting Ordinance
14-011   6-16-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. I
14-019   9-2-2014    111.26
14-021   11-17-2014  150.04
                     157.003;
15-005   1-20-2015   157.048;
                     157.049.1
15-008   2-16-2015   131.069
15-011   4-6-2015    111.26
15-020   7-20-2015   111.16;
                     111.17
15-021   7-20-2015   119.04;
                     119.05
15-023   8-3-2015    90.13;
                     130.023
                     150.03;
15-027   10-5-2015   155.006;
                     155.182
                     90.03;
15-028   10-5-2015   157.003;
                     157.026;
                     157.046
15-029   10-5-2015   157.007
                     50.002—
                     50.005;
16-001   1-4-2016    50.007;
                     50.011;
                     50.069
16-006   4-18-2016   111.26
                     50.002—
                     50.005;
16-021   9-6-2016    50.007;
                     50.011;
                     50.069
16-031   12-19-2016  31.014
17-001   2-6-2017    33.035;
                     33.036
17-002   2-6-2017    155.118
17-026   9-18-2017   Ch. 73, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
17-027   10-16-2017  Ch. 74, Sch. V
17-028   10-16-2017  130.095—
                     130.100
17-034   12-18-2017  33.004
                     130.085—
18-005   4-16-2018   130.091;
                     130.999
18-016   11-5-2018   35.70
18-019   11-19-2018  157.049;
                     157.051
                     50.057;
18-020   11-19-2018  50.059;
                     50.061
18-021   11-19-2018  157.046;
                     157.049
18-029   12-17-2018  34.22
18-030   12-17-2018  151.08
19-018   5-20-2019   155.006
19-019   7-15-2019   50.057
                     50.057;
19-037   11-18-2019  50.059;
                     50.061
19-041   12-2-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     120.01—
19-042   12-2-2019   120.04;
                     120.99
20-003   3-26-2020   32.01 ; 
                     32.08
                     120.02 ; 
20-004   3-26-2020   120.04 ; 
                     157.086 ; 
                     157.087
                     50.057 ; 
20-020   11-16-2020  50.059 ; 
                     50.061
20-021   11-16-2020  34.22
                     33.030 ; 
20-024   12-21-2020  33.031 ; 
                     33.035 ; 
                     33.036
20-025   12-21-2020  111.27 ; 
                     111.45
21-007   3-15-2021   50.061
21-014   6-21-2021   90.24
                     112.01—
21-019   11-15-2021  112.12; 
                     112.99
                     50.057; 
21-020   12-6-2021   50.059; 
                     50.061
21-021   12-6-2021   50.070
21-023   12--2021    130.056
22-007   4-18-2022   118.45 ; 
                     118.46
22-008   4-18-2022   111.26
22-13a   7-5-2022    52.02
22-16    8-1-2022    130.085
                     111.26 ; 
22-17    8-29-2022   118.45 ; 
                     118.46
                     50.057 ; 
22-023   11-21-2022  50.059 ; 
                     50.061
23-08    5-15-2023   90.50 ; 
                     90.51
23-13    8-21-2023   151.01 ; 
                     151.02
                     50.057 ; 
23-018   12-4-2023   50.059 ; 
                     50.061
                     50.058;
24-03    1-2-2024    50.060;
                     50.062
24-06    3-4-2024    Ch. 73, Sch. I
24-12    4-15-2024   130.070
24-16    5-20-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. I
24-22    9-3-2024    130.110—
                     130.119
24-25    9-16-2024   130.075
                    
 
