VILLAGE CODE
of
RIVERWOODS, ILLINOIS
1982
Code current through:
Ord. 25-03-06, passed March 18, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Riverwoods, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-03-06, passed March 18, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 0 82-12-17
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF RIVERWOODS, ILLINOIS
BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Riverwoods, Illinois, an Illinois Municipal Corporation:
SECTION 1:
From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village Code of the
Village of Riverwoods, Illinois, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
Official Code and Law of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of
Trustees.
SECTION 2:
There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the loose-leaf
type of binding, together with the continuous supplement service, provided by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and
permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
Official Village Code is identified by a proper catchline and is inserted in
the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new provision shall
become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the insertion of the
proper replacement pages in the copies of the Code, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
SECTION 3:
All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official Village Code shall
be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact that
some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body shall
not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specificially repealed or amended by a provision of the Village Code.
Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official Village Code.
SECTION 4:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by
additions or deletions, any part of portion of such Code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be misrepresented
thereby.
SECTION 5:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent
of such conflict, hereby repealed.
SECTION 6:
This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with law, as
printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board of
Trustees.
The foregoing Ordinance was adopted by vote as follows:
AYES: Bess, Cundiff, German, Lomont, Salm
NAYS: None
ABSENT AND NOT VOTING: Rosen
APPROVED by the President of the Village of Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois
this 20th day of December, 1982.
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official code of Riverwoods, Illinois. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the RIVERWOODS VILLAGE CODE, and it
is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be kept up
to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the village attorney, acting for
said village board of trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate article (when applicable), chapter and title heading,
and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section
itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any legal document.
(1982 Code; amd. Ord. 02-3-8, 3-5-2002)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1982 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1982 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the
village board. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Village Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
Village Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code.
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions Of Words And Terms
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (1982 Code)
The word "ordinance" contained in ordinances of the village has been changed in
the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "article", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational clarification purposes
only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend the passage
and effective dates of such original ordinances. When reference is made, in any
ordinance amending this code, to the number of a section contained within any
article of a chapter, the reference in the ordinance to the section shall set
forth the number of the chapter followed by the letter of the article in which
such section is contained, and such ordinance shall constitute a sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirements pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this code. Section
7-2A-1 of this code, for example, refers to section 1 contained in title 7,
chapter 2, article A of this code. Any chapter divided into one or more
articles shall be understood to consist of all sections that follow the chapter
heading and article headings. (Ord. 02-3-8, 3-5-2002)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
CODE: The municipal code of Riverwoods, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Lake, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village of Riverwoods".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Riverwoods".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Riverwoods, county of Lake, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as "mayor"
or "president" of the village.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark. (1982 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Election Of Remedies
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the Village, any person, firm or entity found in violation of any
ordinance of the Village or convicted of a misdemeanor under the ordinances of
the Village shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or the entry of an order of supervision pursuant to section 5/5-6-
1 of chapter 730 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1  as may be amended from
time to time. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
any portion of which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, a violator may be
required to pay administrative costs and enforcement costs and may be ordered
to cease violating and comply with the ordinances found to have been violated
and ordered to post a compliance bond as provided by section
1-14-12 of this title. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 5/5-6-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-4-4: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
   A.   A citation or violation notice pursuant to chapter 14 of this title, in
the discretion of the Prosecuting Officer, may be issued for any alleged
violation over which the administrative adjudication system of the Village has
jurisdiction pursuant to section
1-14-3 of this title, in which event the violation may be settled or
compromised in accordance with the administrative adjudication procedures set
forth in this title.
   B.   If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to settle and pay such
Code violation or fails to correct, amend or remove the violation within the
time period set forth in the citation, then the Prosecuting Officer is
authorized to cause a notice to appear to be served upon the alleged violator
and, notwithstanding the availability of administrative adjudication, is
authorized to file a complaint and to prosecute the same in the Circuit Court
of Lake County. After any notice to appear has been served and a complaint
filed in the Circuit Court of Lake County, payment of any fine and costs shall
be in such amount as may be determined and established by the Circuit Court of
Lake County. The Village may seek enforcement of any judgment and collection of
any fines issued through its regular system of administrative adjudication in
any manner permissible under law. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Functions
1-5-2: Meetings Of The Board Of Trustees
1-5-2-1: Village President, Presiding Officer
1-5-2-2: Decorum And Order
1-5-2-3: Quorum
1-5-3: Board Rules Of Procedure
1-5-3-1: Right Of Floor
1-5-3-2: Permission Required To Address Board
1-5-3-3: Right Of Appeal
1-5-3-4: Limitation Of Debate
1-5-3-5: Voting On Measures
1-5-3-6: Dissents And Protests
1-5-3-7: Rules Adopted
1-5-3-8: Petitions
1-5-4: Committees Of The Village Board
1-5-4-1: Village Representative
1-5-5: Complaints
1-5-6: Code Of Ethics
1-5-7: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-5-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
The board of trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office for a four (4) year term according to the method provided by statute 1 .
This board shall be the legislative department of the village government, and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by
statute.
The members of the board of trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute 2 , and shall receive such compensation, if any, as may be provided
by ordinance. (Ord. 100, 6-3-1964)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-3.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The village board shall meet in regular sessions on
the first and third Tuesday of each month at the hour of seven thirty o'clock
(7:30) P.M., and except as provided in the next sentence, no notice of such
regular meeting shall be required. At the beginning of each calendar year, the
village president shall prepare and post at the village hall a schedule of the
board's regular meetings, listing the dates, times and places of such meetings.
Such schedule shall be made available to all persons requesting such schedule
and supplied to the news media which have filed an annual request for notice as
provided by statute. If the village shall employ full time staff to maintain
its website, then at such time the village shall also post notice on its
website of all meetings of the village board.
The place of meeting shall be at the village hall, or at another place which is
convenient and open to the public, as may be designated from time to time by
the village president. Notice of any change in the regular meeting place shall
be supplied to the news media which have filed an annual request for notice as
provided by statute.
Any regular meeting falling upon a legal holiday shall be held upon the next
following Tuesday at the same hour and place unless otherwise provided by the
president and board at the last prior regular meeting. (Ord. 14-01-01, 1-7-
2014)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the president or by
any three (3) or more members of the board. The village clerk shall prepare a
notice of the special meeting, stating time, place and object, said notice to
be given to each member of the board and the president at least twenty four
(24) hours before the time of the meeting. Immediately upon receipt of written
request, it shall also be the duty of the village clerk to make diligent effort
to notify each member of the board in person, either by telephone or otherwise,
of such special session. Only matters set forth in the notice of the meeting
shall be discussed at such meeting.
   In the event the clerk is not available, such notice shall be given by the
village president. Only matters set forth in the notice of the meeting shall be
discussed at such meeting. Special meetings may be held without such notice
when the president and all members of the board are present in person, or
consent in writing to the holding of such meeting, such written consent to be
filed with the clerk or president prior to the beginning of the meeting.
   C.   Adjourned Meetings: Any meeting of the board may be continued or
adjourned to another day, but no adjournment shall be for a period longer than
the next regular meeting thereafter.
   D.   Conference Meetings, Executive Sessions And Committee Of The Whole,
Quasi-Committee Of The Whole And Informal Consideration: The board shall, by
appropriate motion or resolution, be authorized to meet, convene or hold
conference meetings, executive sessions or convene as a committee of the whole,
as a quasi-committee of the whole or meet for informal consideration of any and
all matters and the public may be excluded from such meetings; provided,
however, that the president or the board may invite such persons as may be
required for advice and information and, provided further that no formal vote
shall be taken on any matter under discussion or consideration. (Ord. 100, 6-3-
1964)
   E.   Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings shall be open to the public
except for: 1) collective negotiating matters between the village and its
employees; 2) meetings where the acquisition of real property is being
considered; 3) meetings where a pending or prospective court proceeding against
or on behalf of the village is being considered; 4) meetings to consider
information regarding appointment, employment or dismissal of an employee or
officer; provided, that no final action may be taken at a closed session. (1982
Code)
1-5-2-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT, PRESIDING OFFICER:
   A.   Election, Term Of Office: The village president shall be elected every
other odd numbered year for a term of four (4) years, and serve as president of
the board of trustees, as provided by statute.
   B.   Bond; Oath:
      1.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the president
shall give bond in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), with surety
to be approved by the board of trustees, conditioned upon his faithful
performance of his duties.
      2.   Oath: He shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The president is the chief executive officer of the village, and
shall perform all duties required of him by statute or ordinance. He shall
supervise the executive officers of the village, and have the power and
authority to inspect all books and records kept by any officer of the village
at any time. (1982 Code)
      2.   The village president shall be the presiding officer of all regular
and special meetings of the board of trustees and at all times when the board
meets as a committee of the whole, for a conference meeting or an executive
session. The president, or in his absence, the president pro tem, shall take
the chair at the hour appointed for the board to meet, and shall immediately
call the members to order. The roll shall then be called by the clerk, who
shall enter in the minutes of the meeting the names of the members present.
      3.   Since the president has veto power and other authority not granted
to trustees, the president may not move, second or debate from the chair.
However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit the president from discussion,
advising or commenting upon any matter or from debating on any matter where the
president is entitled to vote.
      4.   In case of the absence of the president, the clerk shall call the
board to order and call the roll of the members. If a quorum is found to be
present, the board shall proceed to elect, by a majority vote of those present,
a president pro tem of the meeting to act until the president appears. The
president pro tem, when acting as presiding officer, shall vote on all
questions on which the vote is taken by "yeas" and "nays", his name being
called last. (Ord. 100, 6-3-1964)
   D.   Appointment Of Officers: The president shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees, all officers of the village whose
appointment or election is not otherwise provided for.
   He may delegate to any officer any duty to be performed; and whenever there
is a question as to the respective duties and powers of any officer of the
village, this shall be settled by the president. (1982 Code)
   E.   Stipend Of The Village President: The village president shall receive
such compensation for his or her services as the village president and board of
trustees shall provide by ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 12-11-18, 11-6-2012)
   F.   Expenditures By Village President: The village president may expend no
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for any proper village purpose
without prior authorization by the village board. If he determines that such
expenditure is necessary for the welfare of the village, he shall report said
expenditure to the village board at the next regular meeting following the
expenditure with an explanation of the amount expended and the purpose for
which the expenditure was made. (Ord. 90-12-13, 12-18-1990)
   G.   President Pro Tem:
      1.   There is hereby created the office of president pro tem, who, during
the absence or disability of the village president, shall perform the duties of
the office of president. For the purpose of this section, the president shall
be deemed absent when he or she is outside of the state or is otherwise
unavailable within one hour notification by the village clerk if immediately
needed to exercise the powers of his or her office. For the purposes of this
section, the village president shall be deemed disabled when he or she is
unable because of physical or mental disability to comply with the terms and
conditions of his or her office.
      2.   The village president pro tem shall serve as village president until
the village president who is absent or disabled is able to assume the duties of
his or her office.
      3.   The village president pro tem shall be the senior village trustee at
the time of absence or disability of the village president. The "senior
trustee" is defined as the trustee with the greatest number of consecutive days
on the board. If more than one village trustee has equal seniority, then the
village trustees, by majority vote, shall elect who shall hold the position of
village president pro tem. In the event the senior trustee cannot hold office
during the term of the sitting village president, the next senior village
trustee shall assume the office of the village president pro tem.
      4.   Whenever a vacancy in the office of village president occurs, the
village president pro tem shall serve until the next election is held pursuant
to state law, unless the village trustees, by majority vote, shall elect a new
village president to serve until the next election is held pursuant to state
law. (Ord. 15-09-16, 9-16-2015)
1-5-2-2: DECORUM AND ORDER:
The presiding officer shall preserve decorum and decide all questions of order,
subject to appeal to the board.
   A.   During board meetings, board members shall preserve order and decorum
and shall, neither by conversation or otherwise, delay or interrupt the
proceedings nor refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer or the rules
of the board. A trustee desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon
recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question
under debate and shall avoid all personalities. A Trustee, once recognized,
shall not be interrupted while speaking unless called to order by the presiding
officer, unless a point of order is raised by another member or unless the
speaker chooses to yield to questions from another member.
   B.   Public members attending Board meetings shall also observe the same
rules of propriety, decorum and good conduct applicable to the members of the
Board. Any person making personal, impertinent and slanderous remarks or who
becomes boisterous while addressing the Board or while attending the Board
meeting shall be removed from the room if so directed by the presiding officer.
In case the presiding officer shall fail to act, any member of the Board may
move to require him to enforce the rules, and the affirmative vote of the
majority of the Board shall require the presiding officer to act.
Any public member desiring to address the Board may be recognized by the chair
at such time as may be designated in the agenda, shall state his name and
address in an audible tone for the record, and shall limit his remarks to the
question under discussion. All remarks and questions shall be addressed to the
presiding officer and not to any individual member of the Board.
1-5-2-3: QUORUM:
The President and three (3) Trustees or, in the alternative, four (4) Trustees,
shall constitute a quorum. If no quorum be present, the meeting shall not
thereby stand adjourned, but the number present shall be competent to adjourn
or recess the meeting by a majority vote subject to the provisions of
subsection
1-5-2C of this Chapter. In any event, no ordinance shall be passed except upon
the favorable vote of a majority of the elected members, as approved by
Statute. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64)
1-5-3: BOARD RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Minutes of Meetings: At each meeting the minutes of the preceding
meeting shall be read, unless the reading shall be dispensed with by consent of
a majority of the Board members present. If no objection is made to the
minutes, the same shall be approved. Minutes may be taken on a form approved by
the Board of Trustees by appropriate resolution. (Ord. 100, 6-2-64; amd. Res.
63, 2-5-68; 1982 Code)
   B.   Filing With Clerk: Every ordinance, resolution and document to come
before the Board for consideration must be filed with the Village Clerk at
least seventy two (72) business hours before the Board meets. It shall be the
duty of the Clerk to have ready for delivery at least one day before the Board
meets, copies of all ordinances, resolutions and documents filed with him to
come before the Board for consideration. All ordinances and resolutions filed
with the Village Clerk for Board action must be accompanied by an explanation
sheet in such form as the Village Clerk shall require. Any item not filed with
the Clerk by the time specified shall be placed on the agenda only by a
majority vote of the Board members present at the Board meeting or by direction
of the President.
   C.   Precedence of Motions: When a question is before the Board, no motion
shall be entertained except: (a) to adjourn, (b) to fix the hour of
adjournment, (c) to lay on the table, (d) for the previous question, (e) to
postpone to a certain day, (f) to refer, (g) to amend, and (h) to postpone
indefinitely. These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. Any
such motion, except a motion to amend, shall be put to a vote without debate.
      1.   Motions to be Stated by the Chair; Withdrawal: When a motion is made
and seconded, it shall be stated by the chair before debate. Any member may
demand that it be put in writing. A motion may not be withdrawn by the mover
without consent of the member seconding it.
      2.   Motions Out of Order: The presiding officer may at any time, without
objection, permit a member to introduce an ordinance, resolution or motion out
of regular order; provided, however, that any member may require a majority
vote approving such action.
      3.   Motion to Adjourn; When Not in Order, Not Debatable: A motion to
adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as follows: (a) when repeated
without intervening business or discussions; (b) when made as an interruption
of a member while speaking; (c) when the previous question has been ordered;
and (d) while a vote is being taken. A motion to adjourn is debatable only as
to the time to which the meeting is adjourned.
      4.   Motion to Lay on the Table: A motion to lay on the table shall
preclude all amendments or debate of the subject under consideration. If the
motion shall prevail, the consideration of the subject may be resumed only upon
motion of a member voting with the majority and with the consent of two-thirds
(2/3) of the members present.
   D.   Previous Question: When the previous question is moved, and seconded by
one other member, it shall be put as follows: "Shall the main question be put
now?" There shall then be no further amendment or debate; but pending
amendments shall be put in their order before the main question. If the
question, "Shall the main question be put now" be decided in the negative, the
main question remains before the Board. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64)
If the question contains two (2) or more divisionable propositions, the
presiding officer may, and upon motion and approval by the Board, shall, divide
the same. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64; amd. 1982 Code)
   E.   Amendments: It shall be in order to amend a proposed ordinance at any
time when not in the hands of a committee.
      1.   To Strike Out, Insert: On an amendment to "strike out and insert",
the paragraph to be amended shall be read as it stands, then the words proposed
to be stricken out and those to be inserted shall be read, and finally the
paragraph as it would stand if so amended shall be read.
      2.   Amend an Amendment: A motion to amend an amendment shall be in
order, but one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be introduced.
An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but an
amendment relating to a different matter shall not be in order.
   F.   Motion to Postpone: All motions to postpone, excepting a motion to
postpone indefinitely, may be amended as to time. If a motion to postpone
indefinitely is carried, the principal question shall be declared lost.
   G.   Reconsideration: After the decision of any question, any member who
voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of any action at the same or
next succeeding meeting; provided, however, that a resolution authorizing or
relating to any contract may be reconsidered at any time before the final
execution thereof. A motion to reconsider shall require the same number of
votes as is required to adopt an ordinance. After a motion for reconsideration
has once been acted on, no other motion for reconsideration thereof shall be
made without unanimous consent.
   H.   Approval of Veto: All ordinances may be approved or vetoed by the
Village President, in whole or in part. If veto extends to part of an
ordinance, the residue shall take effect and be in force. A vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the elected Trustees may override said veto.
   I.   Special Order: Any matter before the Board may be set down as a special
order of business at a time certain upon the consent of a majority of the
members present.
   J.   Anonymous Communications: Unsigned communications shall not be
introduced at any Board meeting.
1-5-3-1: RIGHT OF FLOOR:
When recognized by the chair, a member shall confine himself to the question
under debate, avoid personalities, and refrain from impugning the motives of
other members' arguments or vote. No member shall address the chair or demand
the floor while any vote is being taken.
The right of a member to address the Board on a question of personal privilege
shall be limited to cases in which his integrity, character or motives are
assailed, questioned or impugned.
1-5-3-2: PERMISSION REQUIRED TO ADDRESS BOARD:
Persons other than members of the Board and Village officers and Village
Attorney shall not be permitted to address the Board except upon introduction
or invitation by the presiding officer, by the chairman of the appropriate
Board committee or by a Board member, and such person shall be subject to
limitations imposed by the presiding officer.
1-5-3-3: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any member may appeal to the Board from a ruling of the presiding officer. If
the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state the
reason for same, and the presiding officer may briefly explain his ruling; but
there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the chair be sustained?" If a majority of the members vote "Aye",
the ruling of the chair is sustained; otherwise, it is overruled. (Ord. 100, 6-
3-64)
1-5-3-4: LIMITATION OF DEBATE:
No member shall be allowed to speak more than once on any subject until every
other member choosing to speak thereon shall have spoken, and no member shall
speak more than twice upon any one subject, nor for a longer time than three
(3) minutes, without leave of the Board. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64; amd. 1982 Code)
1-5-3-5: VOTING ON MEASURES:
   A.   Every member present when a question is put shall vote either "Aye" or
"No", unless the Board shall, for special reason, excuse him from voting.
Request to be excused from voting must be made before the votes are called for;
otherwise a passed vote shall count with the majority voting.
   In case of a tie in votes of members of the Board, the President shall cast
a deciding vote. If the President shall not be present or shall abstain, the
proposal shall be considered lost.
   B.   Demand for Roll Call: Upon demand of any member, the roll shall be
called for yeas and nays upon any question before the Board. It shall not be in
order for members to explain their vote during a roll call.
1-5-3-6: DISSENTS AND PROTESTS:
Any member shall have the right to express dissent from or protest against any
ordinance or resolution to the Board and have the reason therefor entered upon
the minutes of the Board. Such dissent or protest must be filed in writing,
couched in respectful language, and presented to the Board no later than the
next regular meeting following the date of passage of the ordinance or
resolution objected to. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64)
1-5-3-7: RULES ADOPTED:
   A.   Robert's Rules of Order: Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the
deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
   B.   Suspension of Rules: Any provision of these rules may be temporarily
suspended at any meeting of the Board, by a majority vote of all members
elected. The vote on any suspension shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered
upon the records.
   C.   Amend Rules: These rules may be amended or new rules adopted by a
majority vote of all members of the Board. Any such alterations or amendments
shall be submitted in writing at the preceding regular meeting and shall be
placed on the calendar under order of new business. This requirement shall be
waived only by unanimous consent, with a recorded vote of all members.
1-5-3-8: PETITIONS:
All petitions shall be made in writing and presented to the Village Clerk at
least three (3) days before the date of the meeting at which the petitioner
wishes to have his petition considered. No petitions, requests or plats are to
be considered by any committee or board unless referred to such committee or
board by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 161, 4-26-71)
1-5-4: COMMITTEES OF THE VILLAGE BOARD:
The President shall appoint such standing committees of the Village Board as he
shall deem appropriate.
Special committees shall be created from time to time as directed by the Board
of Trustees.
All standing and special committees shall consist of a chairperson and as many
members as the President shall determine unless the Board shall direct
otherwise. All committees shall be appointed by the President with the approval
of a majority of the Trustees.
Standing committees may hold meetings on matters referred to them. Committees
may hold special public hearings on pending ordinances or resolutions, having
first given due notice of the time and place of such meeting.
Special committees shall meet on the call of the chairman or as directed by the
President or a majority of the Board. Committees shall report to the Board
without unnecessary delay upon matters referred to them. A majority of the
members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. (Ord. 87-6-12, 6-16-87)
1-5-4-1: VILLAGE REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   For purposes of this subsection, a "Member Agency" means an agency or
association of which the Village is a member or a not-for-profit organization
with whom the Village is collaborating to provide services and programs that
serve the public interest.
   B.   The Village President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, is authorized to designate a resident of the Village to serve as a
representative of the Village to any Member Agency, on such terms and
conditions as the Board of Trustees shall determine. (Ord. 21-03-03, 3-2-2021)
1-5-5: COMPLAINTS:
The procedures for complaints shall be:
   A.   All complaints involving municipal policies shall be referred to the
village board for appropriate action.
   B.   All complaints involving charges of unfair hearings or improper
hearings or inadequate hearings before advisory boards and commissions shall be
referred immediately to the particular board or commission concerned for a
rehearing; provided, however, that such referral shall be accompanied by a
written statement from the person complaining of such improper hearing which
statement shall delineate the specific charges in order that the particular
board or commission concerned may be able to take appropriate action.
   C.   All complaints with respect to the management of the village shall be
referred to the village clerk for the necessary appropriate action in each
individual case. (Ord. 100, 6-3-1964)
1-5-6: CODE OF ETHICS:
Village board members shall conduct themselves so as to bring credit upon the
village as a whole and so as to set an example of ethical conduct for all
citizens of the community. Board members shall bear in mind at all times, their
responsibility to the entire electorate, shall refrain from actions benefiting
special interest groups at the expense of the village as a whole, and shall do
everything in their power to ensure impartial law enforcement throughout the
village at large without special respect to race, creed, color or economic or
social position of the individual citizens. (Ord. 100, 6-3-1964)
1-5-7: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts, prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   To the extent that any ordinances or policies which regulate the
conduct of village officers and employees are less restrictive than this
section, the provisions of this section shall prevail in accordance with the
provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 10-10-23, 10-19-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creation Of Department; Composition
1-6-2: Functions And Authority
1-6-3: Police Chief
1-6-4: Bond Of Members
1-6-5: Hiring And Training Standards For Full And Part Time Police Officers
1-6-6: Admission And Promotion Requirements
1-6-7: Applicability Of Personnel Manual
1-6-8: General Duties Of Members
1-6-9: No Residency Requirements
1-6-10: Range Master And Range Instructor
1-6-11: Provisions Pertaining To Part Time Officers
1-6-12: Extra Duty Assignment
1-6-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the Police Department, an administrative department of
the Village, which shall consist of a Police Chief and such other members of
the department as may be authorized from time to time by the President and
Board of Trustees. All members of the Police Department shall be appointed by
the Village President by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
01-9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-2: FUNCTIONS AND AUTHORITY:
The Police Department shall be responsible for law enforcement within the
Village. All members of the Police Department shall be conservators of the
peace and with the duties and powers assigned to such conservators by statute.
The functions and authority of its members shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   A.   To enforce all ordinances of the Village and all statutes and laws that
have effect in the Village;
   B.   To preserve order within the Village and to prevent infractions of such
ordinances, and of statutes and laws that have effect in the Village;
   C.   To issue citations for violations of such ordinances, statutes and
laws;
   D.   To arrest violators of such ordinances, statutes and laws;
   E.   To serve writs and summonses and other process;
   F.   To furnish backup emergency medical and life safety services in
furtherance of intergovernmental cooperation with the local fire protection
districts in which the territory of Riverwoods is located; and
   G.   To perform such other duties as may be directed by the Police Chief and
to comply with the rules and regulations of the department, as promulgated by
the Police Chief. (Ord. 01-9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-3: POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Creation; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of Police
Chief. The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Village President, by and
with the consent of the Village Board, and shall serve at the discretion of the
Village President, who may terminate the Police Chief, by and with the consent
of the Village Board. The Police Chief need not be a member of the department
at the time of his or her appointment.
   B.   Compensation: The compensation of the Police Chief shall be fixed by
the Village President with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The Police Chief shall be subject to the control and
direction of the Village President and shall be the head of the Police
Department. Subject to the approval of the Village President, the Police Chief
shall be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of its
functions, and all persons who are members of the Police Department shall serve
subject to the orders of the Police Chief. The powers and duties of the Police
Chief shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   To be the keeper of the village jail, and to have custody of all
persons incarcerated in the village jail and to report all offenders to some
proper tribunal for punishment;
      2.   To keep records of the police department and make such reports as
required either by law or by the village president;
      3.   To assign the personnel of the police department and to fix their
duties;
      4.   To issue orders and promulgate rules and regulations for the
operation of the police department;
      5.   To provide for the ongoing training and development of the
knowledge, skills and efficiency of the members of the police department, and
to assign members for purposes, whether such training and development is
conducted within the village or at a location or facility outside of its
corporate limits, including cross training for the purposes of receiving
certification as a first responder;
      6.   To have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen property
recovered by the village;
      7.   To execute all warrants or other legal processes required to be
executed by him or her under any ordinance of the village; and
      8.   To attend meetings of the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 01-
9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-4: BOND OF MEMBERS:
The police chief and all other members of the police department created from
time to time by the president and board of trustees under section
1-6-1 of this chapter shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the president
and board of trustees, conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or
liability due to or occasioned by any act or failure to act on the part of each
such member. (Ord. 01-9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-5: HIRING AND TRAINING STANDARDS FOR FULL AND PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
All full time and part time police officers in the village shall have, or shall
be eligible to obtain within the time limits required by the Illinois law
enforcement training standards board, the training certificate or license to
practice police work or credentials that may be established as mandated by
section 8.2(a) of the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the Illinois law enforcement training standards board. All
police officers shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
   C.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
   D.   Possess no felony convictions.
   E.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged. (Ord. 12-6-9, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
1-6-6: ADMISSION AND PROMOTION REQUIREMENTS:
All appointments and promotions within the department of police and the
respective rank and grade of members as to seniority within the police
department shall be prescribed by rules and regulations adopted by the
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 01-9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-
6-2010)
1-6-7: APPLICABILITY OF PERSONNEL MANUAL:
The personnel and compensation policy and other principles and procedures of
the village as described from time to time in the village's personnel manual
shall apply to all members of the police department, except: a) to the extent
that other terms and provisions apply to officers whose employment is subject
to a collective bargaining agreement which the village has entered into
pursuant to the Illinois public labor relations act and b) to the extent that
such principles and procedures are modified under regulations promulgated from
time to time by the police chief for members of the police department. Any such
regulations shall be made only with the approval of the president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 12-6-9, 6-5-2012)
1-6-8: GENERAL DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to
the enforcement of all ordinances of the village and all statutes and laws
having effect in the village and to preserve order and prevent infractions of
the law and arrest violators thereof. Every member of the police department is
hereby declared to be a conservator of the peace.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every member of the police department to
conduct himself, or herself, in a proper and law abiding manner at all times,
and to avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the police department
shall obey the orders and directions of his superior.
   C.   No member of the police department shall serve any process except on
command of the police chief.
   D.   Every member of the police department shall appear as witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service
as witness in any action suit to which the village is a party, and any fees for
such services shall be turned over to the police chief who shall deposit them
with the village treasurer. (Ord. 01-9-28, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-
2010)
   E.   All full time and part time police officers shall comply with all
applicable general orders promulgated from time to time by the police chief for
members of the police department. (Ord. 12-6-9, 6-5-2012)
1-6-9: NO RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-6(c), the president and
board of trustees of the village of Riverwoods hereby decline to adopt any
residency requirement for members of the police department. Any person seeking
appointment as a member of the Riverwoods police department or as police chief
shall not be required to reside within the corporate limits of the village of
Riverwoods, either at the time of his or her appointment to the department or
while serving as police officer in the department. (Ord. 01-9-28, 9-4-2001;
amd. Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-10: RANGE MASTER AND RANGE INSTRUCTOR:
   A.   The police chief is authorized to designate, from among the full time
sworn officers in the department, a range master and one or more range
instructors. If the police chief determines that no full time sworn officer
should be designated for such duties, then the village president, upon
recommendation of the police chief, by and with the consent of the village
board, shall appoint a range master or range instructors, as needed, in which
case during such time that any person is performing such duties, he or she
shall be hired as a civilian, part time employee of the village.
   B.   The range master and range instructors shall be certified firearms
instructors in accordance with applicable laws of the state of Illinois. The
duties of the range master shall be to supervise the firearms training of
officers and the department's use of the firearms range and the department's
armory. The duties of a range instructor shall be to assist the range master in
the performance of the range master's duties. The range master and range
instructors shall report to and be under the supervision of the police chief.
   C.   A range master or range instructor may hold another village office or
position, including that of part time police officer, and may receive
compensation for both offices or positions; provided, that any part time
officer who is hired as range master or range instructor shall be compensated
at the same hourly rate as such person receives (without overtime or holiday
pay) when performing the duties of part time officer for the department; and
provided further, that a range master or range instructor who also serves as a
part time officer shall be off duty as a police officer when performing the
duties of range master or range instructor. (Ord. 10-4-5, 4-6-2010)
1-6-11: PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO PART TIME OFFICERS:
   A.   The village may employ part time police officers from time to time but
part time police officers shall not work as police officers in the village more
than one thousand five hundred sixty (1,560) hours in any calendar year.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the police chief shall not schedule part time
officers to work as police officers more than one thousand (1,000) hours in any
calendar year unless a higher amount for a particular officer is authorized by
the village president to meet staffing requirements. The police chief shall
require part time officers to acknowledge such limitation as a condition of
employment. (Ord. 14-07-15, 7-15-2014)
   B.   A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the Police Department. Part time police officers shall not be
assigned to supervise or direct full time police officers.
   C.   All part time police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Police Chief, shall serve at the discretion of the Village,
shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be removed by
the Village President at any time. (Ord. 12-6-9, 6-5-2012)
1-6-12: EXTRA DUTY ASSIGNMENT:
The Police Chief is authorized to establish the terms under which the members
of the Police Department may perform extra duty assignment when providing
supplemental traffic or security policing at the request of a resident or
business owner of the Village for specified events. The resident or owner shall
be required to reimburse the Village for the hourly rates of the personnel
performing extra duty assignment in the amount set forth in the Village fee
schedule and to execute agreements to that effect upon a form provided by the
Police Chief. (Ord. 18-06-12, 6-19-2018)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE FINANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Creation of Finance Department
1-7-2: Director of Finance
1-7-3: Duties
1-7-4: No Residency Requirement
1-7-5: Bond
1-7-1: CREATION OF FINANCE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created an administrative department of the village, which
shall be known as the finance department. This department shall consist of the
director of finance and such other employees as may be provided for by the
annual budget and authorized by the village president. (Ord. 23-08-11, 8-15-
2023)
1-7-2: DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
There is hereby created the position of director of finance of the village to
administer the finance department. This position shall be appointed by the
village president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees and
shall serve at the discretion of the village president. The director shall be
the chief financial officer of the village and shall report to the village
president. The director of finance shall be responsible for administering and
collecting all locally imposed and administered taxes; shall act as village
collector; if authorized by the village board, shall serve as treasurer; and
shall exercise and perform all duties and be subject to all the requirements
and obligations pertaining to such offices; provided, however, the director
shall not receive compensation for any other office other than director of
finance. (Ord. 23-08-11, 8-15-2023)
1-7-3: DUTIES:
The duties of the director of finance, as the head of the finance department,
shall include the direction and supervision of all employees of the department,
including the organizing and training of personnel. The director shall be
responsible for billing, purchasing, disbursement, budgeting, accounting,
treasury and debt administration, the maintenance of current records of
insurance policies, real and personal property, structural facilities,
equipment, banking and investment transactions, and other documents and records
pertaining to the fiscal responsibilities of the village. The director shall
perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the village
president. (Ord. 23-08-11, 8-15-2023)
1-7-4: NO RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT:
The director of finance shall not be required to reside within the corporate
limits of the village while serving in such capacity. (Ord. 23-08-11, 8-15-
2023)
1-7-5: BOND
Before entering upon the duties of the office of director of finance, the
director of finance shall execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of such office with security to be approved by the
village president and board of trustees in an amount not less than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The premiums for such bond shall be paid by
the Village. (Ord. 23-08-11, 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment; Residency; Compensation
1-8-2: Bond
1-8-3: Duties Of Village Clerk (Rep. by Res. 22-08-03, 8-2-2022)
1-8-4: Recording Secretary; Content Of Minutes
1-8-5: Deputy Village Clerk
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT; RESIDENCY; COMPENSATION:
   A.   The village clerk shall be an employee of the village appointed by the
village president, with the concurrence of the board of trustees, and shall
serve at the pleasure and under the direction of the village president.
   B.   The village clerk shall not be required to reside within the village
limits as a qualified elector. The village clerk may concurrently hold another
position as a village employee.
   C.   The village clerk shall receive as compensation such salary as
determined by the board of trustees from time to time. (Res. 22-08-03, 8-2-
2022; amd. Ord. 23-05-07, 5-16-2023)
1-8-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office of village clerk, the village
clerk shall execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties with security to be approved by the village president and board of
trustees in an amount not less than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). (1982 Code)
1-8-3: DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK:
The village clerk shall:
   A.   Keep the corporate seal and all papers belonging to the village, the
custody and control of which are not given to any other officers of the
village. The clerk shall attend all meetings of the board of trustees, prepare
minutes of such meetings for approval, and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the manner required by law.
   B.   Perform all duties and functions of village clerk as required by
Illinois law as in effect or as amended from time to time.
   C.   Serve as the primary Freedom of Information Act ("FOIA") Officer,
process FOIA requests on a timely basis in compliance with Illinois law, and
oversee FOIA compliance by other village staff members.
   D.   Perform such other functions and duties as prescribed by the village
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 23-05-07, 5-16-2023)
1-8-4: RECORDING SECRETARY; CONTENT OF MINUTES:
   A.   The village president may designate one or more persons, including
employees of the village, to serve as recording secretary. The recording
secretary shall attend meetings of the board of trustees or other boards and
commissions of the village, as directed by the village president or as required
by this code. The recording secretary shall receive such compensation as may be
approved by the village board.
   B.   When requested to attend a meeting of the board of trustees, the
recording secretary shall assist the village clerk by preparing a brief written
summary of statements from all persons presenting matters or speaking to any
item, the points made and a brief statement of the substantive content of
discussions at such meetings. Such written summaries shall be delivered to the
village clerk solely for the purpose of facilitating the village clerk's
preparation of the minutes of board meetings. The village clerk shall
distribute the minutes of village board meetings in advance of the next regular
meeting for official acceptance. The village board shall exercise final
authority on deciding which summaries of points made and discussions shall be
included in the approved minutes.
   C.   All minutes kept shall include a record of all motions made and all
actions taken, including the maker and seconder, and shall indicate all matters
taken up, even when no action is taken. All roll call votes shall be recorded,
and voice votes so indicated. All persons presenting matters or speaking to any
item shall be indicated. All rulings shall be noted. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-
2009)
1-8-5: DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   There is hereby created the office of Deputy Village Clerk, who need
not be a resident of the Village and who shall be appointed by the Village
Clerk, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Before entering upon the duties of the office of Deputy Village Clerk,
the Deputy Village Clerk shall execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties, with security to be approved by the Village
President and Board of Trustees in an amount not less than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500). The Deputy Village Clerk shall receive such salary or
other compensation for services as may be determined by the President and Board
of Trustees.
   C.   The Deputy Village Clerk shall have the power to execute all documents
required by law to be executed by the Village Clerk and may affix the seal of
the Village Clerk whenever required. In signing any document, the Deputy
Village Clerk shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed with the word
"By" and the Deputy Village Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Village
Clerk".
   D.   The powers and duties of the Deputy Village Clerk shall be exercised in
accordance with written direction given by the Village President and the
Village Clerk to the Deputy Village Clerk or when the corporate authorities
have determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform that function. (Ord. 1-6-11, 6-7-2011;
amd. Ord. 22-02-04, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointment, Term
1-9-2: Bond
1-9-3: Duties of Village Treasurer
1-9-4: Monthly Statements, Warrants, Register
1-9-5: Deposit of Funds, Designation of Bank
1-9-6: Treasurer's Report, Annual Account
1-9-7: Special Assessment Funds Kept Separate
1-9-8: Personal Use of Funds
1-9-9: Transfer of Special Funds to the General Corporate Fund
1-9-10: No Interest to Accrue on Special Funds
1-9-11: Indemnification of the Village Treasurer
1-9-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM:
There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer, who shall be appointed
by the Village President and Board of Trustees, voting jointly. The Treasurer's
term of office shall be until the next regular election for Village officers
following said appointment and until his successor has been appointed and has
qualified. (1982 Code)
1-9-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of this office, the Village Treasurer shall
execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties with
security to be approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees. The
amount of the bond shall be established by the President and Board of Trustees
and shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of the highest amount of taxes and
special assessments received by him or his predecessors during any fiscal year
in the preceding five (5) fiscal years, not less than one and one-half (11/2)
times the largest amount which the corporate authorities estimate will be in
his custody at any one time. (1982 Code)
1-9-3: DUTIES OF VILLAGE TREASURER:
The Village Treasurer shall:
   A.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits
and credits belonging thereto.
   B.   File copies of all receipts with the Village Clerk with his monthly
reports. (1982 Code)
1-9-4: MONTHLY STATEMENTS, WARRANTS, REGISTER:
At the end of every month, and more often if required by the corporate
authorities, the Village Treasurer shall render an account under oath to the
corporate authorities, or to such officer as may be designated by ordinance,
showing the state of the Treasury at the date of the account, and the balance
of money in the Treasury. He shall accompany the account with a statement of
all money received into the Treasury, and on what account, together with all
warrants redeemed and paid by him. On the day he renders an account, these
warrants, with all vouchers held by him, shall be delivered to the Village
Clerk and filed, together with the account, in the Clerk's office. He shall
return all warrants paid by him marked "paid". He shall keep a register of all
warrants, which shall describe each warrant, showing its date, amount and
number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid, and when
paid. (1982 Code)
1-9-5: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS, DESIGNATION OF BANK:
   A.   The Village Treasurer is required to keep all funds and money in his
custody belonging to the Municipality in such places of deposit as may be
designated by ordinance or resolution of the Village. The President and Board
of Trustees shall designate one or more banks or savings and loan associations
in which may be kept the funds and money of the Village in the custody of the
Treasurer. When a bank or savings and loan association has been designated as a
depository, it shall continue as such until ten (10) days have elapsed after a
new depository is designated and is qualified by furnishing the statement of
resources and liabilities required by law.
   B.   When a new depository is designated, the President shall notify the
sureties of the Municipal Treasurer of that fact in writing at least five (5)
days before the transfer of funds. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
responsibility for all funds or money which he deposits in a designated bank or
savings and loan association while the funds and money are so deposited.
   C.   No bank or savings association shall receive Village funds as permitted
by this Section unless it has complied with the requirements established
pursuant to section 6 of "An Act Relating to Certain Investments of Public
Funds by Public Agencies", approved July 23, 1943, as now or hereafter amended
1 .
   D.   The Village Treasurer, on behalf of the Village, may invest Village
funds in investments permitted under the provisions of 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 235/2, as now or hereafter amended. If any Village funds or moneys are
deposited in a bank or savings and loan, the amount of all such deposits not
collateralized or insured by an agency of the Federal government shall not
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the capital stock and surplus of such bank
or seventy five percent (75%) of the net worth of such savings and loan
association, as defined by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation,
and the President and Board of Trustees submitting a deposit shall not be
discharged from responsibility for any funds or money deposited in any bank or
savings and loan association in excess of such limitation.
   E.   No bank or savings and loan shall receive any Village funds unless it
has furnished the Village with copies of the last two (2) sworn statements of
resources and liabilities which the bank is required to furnish the
Commissioner of Bank and Trust Companies or to the Controller of the Currency,
or in the case of savings and loan associations, copies of the last two (2)
sworn statements of resources and liabilities which the savings and loan
association is required to furnish to the Commissioner of Savings and Loan
Associations or the Federal Home Loan Bank. Each bank and savings and loan,
while acting as such depository, shall furnish the Village with a copy of all
statements of resources and liability which the bank is required to furnish to
the Commissioner of Bank and Trust Companies or to the Controller of the
Currency or in the case of savings and loan associations, a copy of all
statements of resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish to the
Commissioner of Savings and Loan Associations or the Federal Home Loan Bank.
(Ord. 85-10-50, 10-15-85)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 30 ILCS 235/6.
1-9-6: TREASURER'S REPORT, ANNUAL ACCOUNT:
The Village Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities, as often as
they require, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of
the Village, as shown by his books, up to the time of the report. As required
by Statute, the Village Treasurer shall make out and file with the Village
Clerk a full and detailed account of the Village receipts and expenditures, and
of all his transactions as Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and he
shall show in that account the state of the Treasury at the close of the fiscal
year. (1982 Code)
1-9-7: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS KEPT SEPARATE:
All money received on any special assessment shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other
purpose, except to reimburse the Village for money expended on such
improvements. (1982 Code)
1-9-8: PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS:
The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the Village in his
custody separate and distinct from his own money, and he shall not use, either
directly or indirectly, the Village's money or warrants in his custody for his
own use and benefit, or that of any other person. Any violation of this
provision shall subject him to immediate removal from office by the corporate
authorities, who may declare the Treasurer's office vacant. In that case his
successor shall be appointed, and he shall hold his office for the remainder of
the unexpired term of the Treasurer so removed. (1982 Code)
1-9-9: TRANSFER OF SPECIAL FUNDS TO THE GENERAL CORPORATE FUND:
   A.   Whenever the Treasurer shall determine that funds or cash bonds
previously paid to the Village to be held for escrow purposes under any
ordinance or regulation of the Village are no longer necessary to effectuate
the purpose for which said deposits were made, such funds shall be returned to
the original depositors upon showing that the conditions for which the deposits
were made had been satisfied. In the event the Treasurer is unable to locate
the original depositors or their lawful assignees, the Treasurer shall serve to
the depositor by certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the last
known address, notice indicating that funds are available for return. If no
claim is made within thirty (30) days of the giving of such notice, notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village, which
notice shall recite such funds are available for return to the designated
depositor. Such notice of publication may contain notice of one or more funds
which are available for return to the designated depositors. If no claim is
made within ten (10) days after publication of such notice, the Treasurer shall
report this fact to the President and Board of Trustees who may, by motion,
transfer such funds to the General Corporate Fund of the Village and such funds
shall thereupon become the property of the Village.
   B.   In the event that there is no known address for the depositor or their
lawful assignee and said funds have been held by the Village for at least two
(2) years beyond the date necessary to effectuate the purposes for which the
deposits were made, the Village Treasurer shall give notice by publication
addressed to whom it may concern in the manner above provided and if no claim
is made within ten (10) days, the Treasurer shall report this fact to the
President and Board of Trustees who may, by motion, transfer such funds to the
General Corporate Fund of the Village and such funds shall thereupon become the
property of the Village. (Ord. 85-10-48, 10-15-85)
1-9-10: NO INTEREST TO ACCRUE ON SPECIAL FUNDS:
Funds or cash bonds paid to the Village to be held for escrow purposes under
any ordinance or regulation of the Village shall not bear interest and the
Village shall not be held to account for investment earnings, if any, on said
funds to the depositor thereof. (Ord. 87-8-18, 8-18-87)
1-9-11: INDEMNIFICATION OF THE VILLAGE TREASURER:
The Village shall indemnify and hold harmless the Village Treasurer from any
personal claims, judgments, damages or awards against him arising out of the
performance of the duties specified in this Code or the statutes of the State
of Illinois. Such indemnification shall extend to all costs and attorneys fees
arising out of the defenses of such claims. The indemnification provided herein
shall extend to all acts performed in good faith and in a prudent manner by
said treasurer but shall not extend to any willful or wanton misconduct or
purposeful violation of law. (Ord. 92-8-12, 8-18-92)
CHAPTER 10
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-10-2: Legal Opinions Of Village Attorney
1-10-3: Attorney For The Village
1-10-4: Prevailing Wage Rates For Public Works Construction
1-10-5: Indemnification Of Village Officials
1-10-1: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The Village of Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois, does hereby elect to
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, effective January 1,
1981, and the Village Clerk is hereby directed to promptly file a certified
copy of this Resolution with the Board of Trustees of the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund. (Res. 80-9-15, 9-22-1980)
Employee contributions to the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund shall be paid
by the Village on behalf of all of the employees enrolled in the Fund, and the
payment shall be made by reducing the amount of the gross earnings payable to
employees by the amount of the contributions and making payment of this amount
directly to the Fund. The payment of employee contributions provided shall be
effective for all compensation paid to employees beginning with March 1982.
(Res. 82-2-10, 2-15-1982)
The Board of Trustees of the Village does hereby elect to exclude from
participation in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund all officials and
employees in positions normally requiring performance of duty for less than one
thousand (1,000) hours per year. This exclusion shall apply only to officials
and employees who first occupy offices or positions under the Fund after
adoption of this Resolution. (Res. 82-3-11, 3-15-1982)
1-10-2: LEGAL OPINIONS OF VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
Except as directed at a regular or special meeting of the Board, the Village
Attorney shall not prepare written ordinances or resolutions nor render legal
opinions except as follows: The President or any member of the Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Village or person so designated a written request
to the Village Attorney which shall be in duplicate. The Village Clerk shall
retain the copy for his permanent files and transmit the original to the
Village Attorney. The Village Attorney shall transmit said legal opinion,
ordinance or resolution, as the case may be, to the Village Clerk, which copy
will be forwarded by the Village Clerk to the President and members of the
Village Board at his earliest convenience. (Ord. 100, 6-3-1964; amd. 1982 Code)
1-10-3: ATTORNEY FOR THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Appointment: The Attorney for the Village, an executive officer of the
Village, shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Duties: The Attorney for the Village shall:
      1.   Prosecute and defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity
to which the Village may be a party or in which it may be interested;
      2.   See to the enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered in favor
of the Village;
      3.   Advise the President and Board of Trustees on all legal questions
affecting the Village whenever requested so to do by any Village official, and
reduce any such opinion to writing when requested by the President;
      4.   Institute and complete all special assessment proceedings authorized
by ordinance;
      5.   Draft ordinances, contracts, leases and other documents to which the
Village may be a party; and
      6.   Perform such other professional services incident to his office as
may be required by the Board of Trustees or any of its committees. (1982 Code)
1-10-4: PREVAILING WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Wage Rates Provided: To the extent and as required by "An Act
regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other workers employed in any
public works by the State, County, City or any public body or any political
subdivision or by anyone under contract for public works", approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public works
coming under the jurisdiction of the Village is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Lake County
area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of
June 1987, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference. The definition of any terms appearing in this Section
which are also used in the aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Applied To Public Works Employment: Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to apply said general prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained
to any work or employment except public works construction of this Village to
the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall:
      1.   Publicly post or keep available for inspection by any interested
party in the main office of the Village this determination of such prevailing
rate of wage.
      2.   Mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to any
association of employers and to any person or association of employees who have
filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating
the particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages will be
affected by such rates.
      3.   Promptly file a certified copy of this Section with both the
Secretary of State and the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
      4.   Cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the area a copy of this Section, and such publication shall constitute notice
that the determination is effective and that this is the determination of this
public body. (Ord. 87-6-13, 6-16-1987)
1-10-5: INDEMNIFICATION OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
   A.   In the event any Village officer or employee, including, but not
limited to, the Village President, Trustees, Village Clerk, members of boards
and commissions, police officers, firefighters and any other employee or
appointed or elected official acting within the scope of his/her prescribed
duties for the Village is caused to be sued, the Village agrees to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the officials and employees against all injuries,
deaths, loss, damages, claims, patent claims, suits, liabilities, judgments,
settlements, costs and expense incurred, subject to any of the limitations set
forth in this Section.
   B.   The Village President and Village Attorney, on behalf of the Village
reserve the right to determine the final selection of legal counsel and
disposition of any claims or lawsuits brought against any Village official,
appointed or elected, or any of its employees, except in cases where the
Village President, members of the Board of Trustees, or the Village Clerk are
sued in their personal capacities, in which instance the members sued shall
have the right to concur in or disapprove the choice of legal counsel made by
the Village President and the Village Attorney.
It is further understood that any employee or elected or appointed official of
the Village agrees to cooperate in his/her defense, as required by his/her
appointed legal counsel; and failure to assist and cooperate in his/her defense
may result in a waiver and withdrawal of all the covenants and promises set
forth in this Section.
   C.   The provisions for defense and indemnification provided herein shall be
limited in dollar amount for judgments, costs, settlements and awards all
inclusive to the maximum dollar amount of the Village's self-insurance
retention. In the event there exists commercial insurance coverage of any kind,
said insurance shall be exhausted prior to application to the Village's self-
insured retention.
   D.   The provisions for defense and indemnification herein shall not apply
in cases where a court of competent final jurisdiction has found that a Village
officer or employee, otherwise entitled to such defense and indemnification
hereunder, has committed fraudulent, criminal or malicious acts or in cases
involving the recovery of salary, wages, or interest or penalties thereon
payable to any person by the Village.
   E.   Nothing contained herein is intended to or shall result in the waiver
of any immunity by the Village, its officers and employees by the operation of
the Local Government and Governmental Tort Immunity Act or any other statutes
of the Village to avail itself of all defenses provided by said immunity
statute on behalf of itself, its officers and employees. (Ord. 99-5-9, 5-18-
1999)
CHAPTER 11
VILLAGE ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MEASURES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Introduction
1-11-2: Village Attorney to Review
1-11-3: Readings
1-11-4: Effective Date of Ordinances
1-11-5: Establishment of Fees
1-11-6: Professional Consultant Fees
1-11-1: INTRODUCTION:
All ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced to the Board in printed or
written form. All ordinances or resolutions which are submitted to the Board by
citizens shall be dated and signed by the citizen proposing same. Any citizen
may submit the reasons for proposing such measure in a separate written brief
statement, and may apply to the Board for permission to be heard with respect
to such resolution or measure, which permission may be granted by majority vote
of the whole Board. Such hearing shall be subject to the authority of the
presiding officer.
1-11-2: VILLAGE ATTORNEY TO REVIEW:
All proposed ordinances shall be prepared or examined by the Village Attorney
and bear his approval.
1-11-3: READINGS:
   A.   Except for emergency or extraordinary measures, ordinances shall not be
passed until they have been presented on two (2) separate days at regular or
special meetings of the Board subsequent to the date of introduction unless the
requirement of two (2) separate days shall be dispensed with by affirmative
votes of the majority of the members of the Board; provided, that such
requirement shall never be dispensed with on any ordinance making a grant,
renewal, or extension of a franchise or other special privilege.
   B.   At the time of introduction of an ordinance, the Village Clerk shall
read the title and briefly state the general nature of the ordinance. The
Village President or any member of the Village Board shall, however, have
authority to require the ordinance to be read in full at time of introduction.
Such reading shall not constitute a first reading unless by majority vote of
members present.
   C.   The ordinance shall then be referred to an appropriate person,
administrative body or the Attorney for the Village for report at the next
regular meeting, and shall also be put on the new business agenda for
consideration at said next regular meeting.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall distribute copies of the proposed ordinance to
the Village President, members of the Village Board and the Village Attorney at
least ten (10) days prior to said next regular meeting.
   E.   At a meeting subsequent to the first reading, any Trustee may move the
adoption of that ordinance. If the motion receives a second, the chairman of
the meeting shall direct the Village Clerk to call the roll of the Trustees and
record their oral vote and the ordinance shall have been adopted by a vote of
the majority of the Trustees present, unless a greater vote is required by law
or other ordinance.
1-11-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE:
Ordinances imposing a fine or making an appropriation are effective ten (10)
days after publication. Other ordinances are effective immediately unless the
ordinance specifies otherwise. (Ord. 100, 6-3-64)
1-11-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES:
Whenever any provision of this Code provides for a fee or penalty, said
provision may be changed from time to time by the adoption of a fee schedule or
amendment thereto, without a specific amendment to any section of this Code.
(Ord. 89-9-11, 9-19-89)
1-11-6: PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT FEES:
   A.   Any person (an "applicant") requesting consideration or action by the
Village, submitting applications to the Village, including but not limited to,
permit applications, seeking review of projects or permit applications by the
village, or otherwise seeking appearance before the Village board, Plan
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other board, commission or
committee of the Village shall be required, whenever it is deemed necessary by
the director of community services to deposit sufficient funds necessary to
defray anticipated professional consultant expense to be incurred by the
Village related to the project, action, application, or appearance requested.
Professional consultant expenses shall include, but are not limited to, the
fees of the Village Attorney, Village Engineer, Village Ecologist, Village
Forester and all outside inspectors whose fees are charged to the Village by
other governmental agencies.
   B.   The Director of Community Services shall, upon receipt of a matter
which may or will require professional consultant services to be rendered or
utilized by the Village, whenever practicable make an estimate of the amount of
the cost of expected services based on the nature of the matter, its
complexity, the relative need for professional consultant advice and the
expected duration of processing the matter. The Director of Community Services
shall so notify the applicant in writing:
      1.   With the estimate of the necessary funds to defray all professional
consultant costs the village might incur in the course of reviewing the matter
submitted by the applicant.
      2.   With notice to the applicant that the application or matter shall
not thereafter be reviewed or acted upon unless and until said sum is received
by the village.
   C.   The Director of Community Services shall periodically review the funds
on deposit to ensure that adequate funds are available to satisfy all
professional statements referring to said matter, in addition to any
administrative fees as required from time to time by the Village Code or
village fee schedule. If the Director of Community Services determines that
sufficient funds are not available, he or she shall notify the applicant and
request a further amount to defray the anticipated additional costs in
accordance with the standards set forth in this section or as more particularly
set forth in the village fee schedule. The applicant shall be given fourteen
(14) days to deposit the additional funds. In the event said additional funds
are not deposited, the Village and its consultants shall take no further action
on the matter and shall so notify the applicant.
   D.   Upon conclusion of the matter and after all outstanding professional
consultant fees incurred by the Village for review of the matter have been
satisfied in full, the Director of Community Services shall cause any remaining
balance, if any, of the funds deposited by the applicant to be remitted to the
person who had deposited the funds. (Ord. 20-02-04, 2-4-2020)
CHAPTER 12
INSPECTION AND PHOTOCOPYING OF PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Village Clerk Responsible
1-12-3: Time to Respond
1-12-4: Time and Place for Request for Records
1-12-5: Approval of Description of Village of Riverwoods
1-12-6: Exemptions
1-12-7: Appeal Period
1-12-8: Costs
1-12-9: Applicability to Records Received or Obtained Prior to July 1, 1984
1-12-10: Categorization of Records
1-12-11: Reveal of Exempt Records
1-12-12: Separability
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
COPYING: The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device, or means.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association acting individually or as a group, or any other legal entity.
PUBLIC BODY: Any legislative, executive, administrative or advisory body of the
State of Illinois, counties, townships, cities or villages, incorporated towns,
school districts, and all other municipal corporations, boards, bureaus,
committees or commissions of this State, and any subsidiary bodies of any of
the foregoing, including but not limited to committees and subcommittees which
are supported in whole or in part by tax revenue, or which expend tax revenue.
PUBLIC RECORD: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Freedom of
Information Act 1 . (Ord. 84-8-23, 8-20-84)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-12-2: VILLAGE CLERK RESPONSIBLE:
The Village Clerk shall be responsible for administering all requests for
inspection or photocopying of public records. All requests for inspection or
photocopying of public records shall be made in written form on forms provided
by the Village and shall be duly signed by the applicant. The applicant shall
be required to pay to the Village at the time of the request the estimated
costs of any photocopies requested or any other copying requested. No request
shall be considered complete unless and until the amount of the estimated costs
are paid to the Village.
1-12-3: TIME TO RESPOND:
The Village Clerk shall respond to a duly filed request for inspection or
photocopying of public records within seven (7) working days of receipt of the
request. The Village Clerk shall either provide the documents requested within
said seven (7) days for inspection or photocopying, or shall deny the request
if the requested information is not a public record within the meaning of the
Freedom of Information Act. In the event that the Village Clerk cannot comply
with the request for information within the initial seven (7) day period for
any reason permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, the Village Clerk shall
so inform the applicant by letter of his inability to provide that information
within the initial seven (7) working days, and the Clerk shall indicate the
reason for the delay in the letter to the applicant. In the event that a delay
beyond the seven (7) days occurs, the Village Clerk shall fully respond to the
request for inspection or photocopying of public records no later than fourteen
(14) working days after the initial receipt of the completed application for
inspection or photocopying of public records as required by the Freedom of
Information Act.
In the event that the Village Clerk is unable to determine whether or not the
application seeks public records or nonpublic records, the Village Clerk is
authorized to confer with the Village Attorney, or such other persons as are
necessary to make a final determination as to whether or not the request of
information consists of public records within the meaning of the Freedom of
Information Act.
1-12-4: TIME AND PLACE FOR REQUEST FOR RECORDS:
Written requests for inspection or photocopies of public records may be made to
the Village of Riverwoods to the attention of the Village Clerk during normal
office hours, Monday through Friday, eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to one
thirty o'clock (1:30) P.M. All of said requests for inspection or photocopies
of public records shall be personally delivered to the Village Clerk, or if she
is not present, any other representative of the Village at the Village Hall,
300 Portwine Road, Riverwoods, Illinois.
1-12-5: APPROVAL OF DESCRIPTION OF VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS:
Section 4 of the Freedom of Information Act requires all public bodies to
display certain information and make the same available to the public for
inspection and copying. The brief description of the Village, the short summary
of its purpose, the block diagram with its functional subdivisions, and the
amount of the operating budget, all of which is set forth in a certain pamphlet
which is on file with the Village Clerk dated July 1, 1984, be and the same is
hereby authorized and approved, and the Village Clerk is authorized and
directed to make the same available to the general public for inspection and
photocopying during normal office hours. (Ord. 84-8-23, 8-20-84; amd. letter,
10-5-89)
1-12-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The following documents, information or materials shall not be considered
records for the purposes of this Chapter:
   A.   Information specifically prohibited from disclosure by Federal or State
law or rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Information which, if disclosed, would constitute a clearly unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy.
   C.   Investigatory records compiled for State or local administrative law
enforcement purposes or for internal matters of a public body to the extent
that disclosure would 1) interfere with pending or actually and reasonably
contemplated enforcement proceedings, 2) deprive a person of a fair trial or an
impartial hearing, 3) unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential
source or confidential information furnished only by a confidential source, 4)
disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other than those
generally used or known, 5) constitute an invasion of personal privacy, or 6)
endanger the life or safety of law enforcement personnel or any other person.
   D.   Criminal history record information obtained by State or local criminal
justice agencies.
   E.   Records of State and local law enforcement agencies and correctional
agencies that are related to the detection and investigation of crime or the
security and operations of correctional institutions.
   F.   Preliminary drafts, notes, recommendations, memoranda and other records
in which opinions are expressed or policies or actions are formulated, and all
other records in which opinions are expressed or policies or actions are
formulated that has not been publicly cited and identified by the Village
President.
   G.   Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a
person or business when such trade secrets or information are proprietary,
privileged or confidential, or where disclosure of such trade secrets or
information may cause competitive harm.
   H.   Proposal and bids for any contract, grant or agreement which, if
disclosed, would frustrate procurement or give an advantage to any person
proposing to enter into a contract with the Village until an award or final
selection is made.
   I.   Valuable formula, designs, drawings and research data obtained or
produced by any public body when disclosure could reasonably be expected to
produce private gain or public loss.
   J.   Examination data used to administer or determine the qualifications of
an applicant for a license or employment.
   K.   Architect's and engineer's plans for buildings.
   L.   Minutes of the meetings of the Village which are closed to the public.
   M.   Communications between the Village and its attorney or auditor that
would not be subject to discovery in litigation or consists of materials
prepared or compiled by or for the Village in anticipation of a criminal, civil
or administrative proceeding upon the request of any attorney advising the
Village.
   N.   Administrative or technical information associated with data processing
operations which, if disclosed, would jeopardize the security of the system or
data contained therein, or the security of materials exempt under the Freedom
of Information Act.
   O.   Documents or materials relating to collective negotiating matters
between public bodies and their employees or representatives, except that any
final contract or agreement shall be subject to inspection and copying.
   P.   Drafts, notes, recommendations and memoranda pertaining to the
financing and marketing transactions of the public body.
   Q.   The records, documents, and information relating to real estate
purchase negotiations until those negotiations have been completed or otherwise
terminated, and documents and information relating to parcels involved in a
pending or actually and reasonably contemplated eminent domain proceeding.
   R.   Any and all proprietary information and records related to the
operation of an intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance
pool, or jointly self-administered health and accident cooperative or pool.
   S.   Information relating solely to the internal personnel rules and
practices of a public body.
   T.   Information, the disclosure of which is restricted under the Public
Utilities Act.
   U.   Manuals or instruction to staff which relate to the establishment or
collection of liability for any state tax, or which relate to investigations by
a public body to determine violation of any criminal law. (Ord. 84-8-23, 8-20-
84)
1-12-7: APPEAL PERIOD:
Any person whose request for inspection or photocopy of public records is
denied in whole or in part shall have right to appeal the Village Clerk's
decision to the Village President. All appeals shall be taken on the form
provided by the Village, which is available from the Village Clerk at the
Village Hall. Any and all appeals shall be filed with the Village Clerk no
later than fourteen (14) days after the denial by the Village Clerk. In the
event that an appeal is not taken within the fourteen (14) days, the applicant
shall be deemed to have acquiesced in the ruling of the Village Clerk and the
matter shall be deemed concluded.
The Village President shall make a decision as to the appeal and so advise the
applicant by written letter no later than seven (7) working days after the
notice of appeal is properly filed.
1-12-8: COSTS:
The following costs for photocopies of public records shall apply:
   A.   Ten cents ($0.10) per page for all standard eight and one-half inch by
twelve inch (81/2" x 12") pages.
   B.   Actual costs for the reproduction of all oversize documents in the
event that the actual cost is greater than twenty five cents ($0.25) per page,
otherwise twenty five cents ($0.25) per page for oversize documents.
   C.   Certification shall be charged at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per
page for individual pages, or five dollars ($5.00) for certification of
pamphlets.
1-12-9: APPLICABILITY TO RECORDS RECEIVED OR OBTAINED PRIOR TO JULY 1, 1984:
The Village hereby adopts and approves the foregoing standards, except as
precluded or otherwise prevented by the operation of the Local Records Act, for
the production of public records for all records received or obtained by the
Village prior to July 1, 1984, provided, however, that in addition to the
foregoing costs as set forth in Section
1-12-8, the Village shall further charge an administrative cost of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per hour for the time expended by the Village Clerk or her
designated assistant in collecting and producing any documents or records that
were received or obtained by the Village prior to July 1, 1984, and such other
and further costs that are actually incurred by the Village in complying with
any requests for said records.
1-12-10: CATEGORIZATION OF RECORDS:
The Village Clerk is authorized and directed to maintain and make available for
inspection and photocopying a reasonably current list of all types or
categories of records under the Village's control. This responsibility shall
apply exclusively to information received after July 1, 1984, and shall not
apply to any records or information received prior to that date.
1-12-11: REVEAL OF EXEMPT RECORDS:
The Village Clerk shall not divulge or reveal to any public record applicant
any records or materials which are exempt from the terms of the Freedom of
Information Act as set forth in section 7 of that Act, unless directed to do so
by a court of competent jurisdiction or the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord.
84-8-23, 8-20-84; amd. letter, 10-5-89)
1-12-12: SEPARABILITY:
It is the intention of the Village Board that this Chapter and every provision
thereof shall be considered separable, and the validity of any section, clause,
provision or part or portion of any section, clause or provision of this
Chapter shall not affect the validity of any portion of the Chapter. (Ord. 84-
8-23, 8-20-84)
CHAPTER 13
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Smoking During Public Meetings Prohibited
1-13-2: Alcoholic Liquor In Village Hall
1-13-1: SMOKING DURING PUBLIC MEETINGS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cigars, cigarettes or
pipes in the main meeting hall of the village hall during any period when such
hall is being used for a meeting of the village board, any committee of said
board or any public meeting.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each such offense. (Ord. 86-1-2, 1-21-
1986)
1-13-2: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN VILLAGE HALL 1 :
The sale and delivery of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in the Riverwoods
Village Hall, 300 Portwine Road, Riverwoods, Illinois 60015, pursuant to such
regulations as the village president from time to time may establish. (Ord. 00-
12-23, 12-19-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-15.
CHAPTER 14
SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Creation Of Administrative Adjudication System
1-14-2: Purpose
1-14-3: Jurisdiction
1-14-4: Administrative Adjudication Division
1-14-5: Hearing Officer
1-14-6: Violation Notice
1-14-7: Service - Due Process
1-14-8: Hearings
1-14-9: Subpoenas
1-14-10: Violations Of Orders
1-14-11: Default
1-14-12: Fines; Compliance Bond
1-14-13: Enforcement Of Hearing Officer's Order
1-14-14: Election Of Remedies
1-14-1: CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority of division 2.1 of article 1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.2-1-1, et seq., and the home
rule powers of the Village, there is hereby created a system of administrative
adjudication of charges of Code violations for the Village. The administrative
hearing system will authorize a Hearing Officer to conduct adjudicatory
hearings of cases instituted by any Village department. The term "this Code"
when used in this chapter refers to the Riverwoods Village Code and the term
"Code violation" or "violation" refers to violations of any ordinance or
regulation of the Village, including, but not limited to, violations of
Building, Property Maintenance, Fire, Life Safety and other national codes and
amendments thereto and the Illinois Vehicle Code, all as adopted by reference
by the Village and as the same from time to time may hereafter be amended.
   B.   The provisions of division 2.1 of article 1 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this chapter as if fully set forth herein. In the event of a
conflict between such statutes and this chapter, this chapter will prevail.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to administrative
adjudication proceedings to the extent that they are not inconsistent with
other administrative adjudication provisions of this Code, such as the
administrative adjudication proceedings described in title 6, chapter 6,
"Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment", of this Code. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the administrative adjudication system of charges of Code
violations is to provide a procedure by which charges of Code violations can be
administratively adjudicated equitably and efficiently by administrative
Hearing Officers. The adoption of a system of administrative adjudication shall
not preclude the Village from using other lawful means to enforce and
adjudicate the provisions of any ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-
16-2017)
1-14-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Proceeding Initiated: An administrative adjudication proceeding
pursuant to this chapter may be initiated for any alleged Code violations
except that no Code violation shall be prosecuted under such administrative
adjudication proceeding for: 1) an offense where the relief sought is a penalty
of incarceration or a total fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00), excluding allowable costs, 2) an offense that is a traffic
regulation governing the movement of vehicles, and 3) any reportable offenses
under section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The fifty thousand dollar
($50,000.00) limitation shall not apply to those cases brought to enforce the
collection of any tax imposed and collected by the Village. In addition, any
matter for which the Village President is the designated Hearing Officer under
this Code may be referred to the administrative adjudication system for hearing
and resolution in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Prosecute Or Refer Offense: The Village may prosecute any of the
offenses listed in subsection G, "Table Of Offenses And Fines", of this
section, by filing a case directly in the appropriate court or the Village may
elect to refer the offense to the administrative adjudication system for
hearing and resolution in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Settle After Notice: After a notice of any Code violation in the form
of a citation or other charging document ("violation notice" or "citation") is
issued in accordance with this chapter, the person so accused of such
violation, except if the violation citation is marked "must appear", may settle
and compromise the violation claim in respect of such violation by paying to
the Village the applicable amount as shown in violation notice no later than
forty eight (48) hours prior to the date and time set for an administrative
adjudication hearing on the face of the violation notice, subject to the
provisions of subsection
1-14-7B of this chapter.
   D.   Payment: The payment of each citation shall be made in accordance with
the instructions contained in such citation, at the Village Hall address noted
in the citation. The Division of Administrative Adjudication shall issue a
receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said amount to be credited
to the proper Municipal fund. Payment may also be made in accordance with any
other payment options from time to time adopted by the Village.
   E.   Must Appear Offenses: Notwithstanding that an offense may be listed in
subsection G, "Table Of Offenses And Fines", of this section, if the citation
is marked "must appear", then the person alleged to have committed the offense
is required to appear at the administrative adjudication hearing and the
violation is not subject to the pre-pay options as set forth in subsection G,
"Table Of Offenses And Fines", of this section. Citations may be marked "must
appear", among other reasons, for violations that involve corrective actions.
   F.   Penalty Amounts: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code: 1)
all minimum penalty amounts set forth in other sections of this Code, unless
set forth in the fee schedule adopted pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this title, that are in conflict with subsection G, "Table Of
Offenses And Fines", of this section are replaced by the minimum fines set
forth in subsection G, "Table Of Offenses And Fines", of this section and 2) in
all cases where a greater penalty is prescribed by any ordinance of the
Village, including any specific penalties from time to time set forth in the
fee schedule adopted pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this title, such greater penalty shall be controlling over the fines
set forth in subsection G, "Table Of Offenses And Fines", of this section.
(Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
   G.   Table Of Offenses And Fines:
                               Minimum Fine Minimum Fine Minimum Fine -
Reference Minimum Fine $75.001 $100.001     $200.001     $200.001 Must Appear
                                                         At Hearing2
                                                                Minimum Fine -
Reference       Minimum Fine    Minimum Fine    Minimum Fine    $200.001 Must
                $75.001         $100.001        $200.001        Appear At
                                                                Hearing2
Title 3, ch. 2,                                                 All sections
Liquor control
Title 3, ch. 3, All sections
Solicitation
Title 3, ch. 4,                 All sections
Raffles
Title 3, ch. 5,                 Articles A, B,                  Article D,
Businesses                      and C                           Massage Spa
                All sections    Chapter 7,                      Chapter 6,
Title 4, Health except those in Regulation Of                   Stormwater
And Sanitation  chapters 6 and  Vacant                          Management
                7               Buildings
Title 5, Police Chapter 1,
Regulations     General
                Offenses
Title 5, Police Chapter 2,
Regulations     Minors3
Title 5, Police Chapter 3,
Regulations     Civil
                Emergencies
Title 5, Police                                 Chapter 4,
Regulations                                     Dangerous And
                                                Diseased Trees
                Chapter 6,
Title 5, Police Outdoor
Regulations     Residential
                Lighting
                Regulations
                Chapter 1,
                State Traffic
                Regulations,
                except when a
                higher minimum
Title 6, Motor  amount is
Vehicles And    required by
Traffic         State law, and
                except that the
                minimum fine
                for local
                parking
                violations
                shall be $40.00
Title 7, Public                                 Chapter 4,
Ways And        Chapters 1, 2,                  Construction Of
Property        5 and 6                         Facilities On
                                                Rights-Of-Way
Title 8,                        All sections in
Development                     title 8
Regulations
                                All sections in                 Chapter 6, Tree
Title 9, Zoning                 title 9,                        And Woodland
                                excluding                       Protection
                                chapter 6
Title 10,                       All sections in
Subdivision                     title 10
Regulations
Title 11, Flood                 All sections in
Control                         title 11
Title 12, Signs                 All sections in
                                title 12
 
Notes:
   1.   Fines are exclusive of hearing costs. Daily fines are possible where
permissible by law. The maximum fine for any single violation, if not set forth
in other sections of this Code, is subject to section
1-4-1 of this title.
   2.   All violations in this column cannot be settled without first appearing
at the hearing.
   3.   Except section
5-2-3 of this Code. See section
5-2-3 of this Code for penalty.
(Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 18-02-03, 2-20-2018; Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-
2018)
1-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION DIVISION:
   A.   Division: The system of administrative adjudication shall be composed
of an Administrative Adjudication Division of the Administrative Department,
which shall be comprised of one or more Hearing Officers and a Code Hearing
Unit, which may include any one or more of the following: Administrative
Hearings Supervisor, an Administrative System Clerk, and hearing room personnel
(Deputy), with the power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set
forth.
   B.   Authority And Jurisdiction: The Administrative Adjudication Division is
authorized, empowered, and directed to:
      1.   Recommend rules and regulations reasonably required to manage the
Administrative Adjudication Division;
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter, or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter;
      3.   Collect payments made as a result of fines, costs, and/or penalties
assessed after a final determination of liability;
      4.   Certify copies of final determinations of violations adjudicated
pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the final
determination of any liability that was issued in accordance with this chapter
or the laws of the State of Illinois, as from time to time amended; and
      5.   Keep accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
hearings, pleas entered, fines, costs, and penalties assessed and paid.
   C.   Powers Of The Administrative Hearings Supervisor: The Village Clerk
shall serve as the Administrative Hearings Supervisor (or other designee of the
Village President approved by the Board of Trustees) and shall be empowered and
is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage this system of administrative adjudication of
nonvehicular Code violations.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process Code violation notices and other
notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of a Code violation.
      4.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain this administrative adjudication system.
      5.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties and otherwise pursue all post-
judgment remedies available under law.
      6.   Compromise or otherwise settle violation notices prior to a hearing
date. However, any such compromise must be made of record by the Administrator
on the date the violation notice was scheduled to appear for hearing, with an
explanation by the Administrator as to the reasons for such compromise. The
Hearing Officer is also required to approve any such compromise or settlement
at the hearing.
      7.   Establish any other necessary rules and regulations and performing
any other duties and functions as may be required or appropriate to establish
and administer the Village's administrative adjudication system.
   D.   Powers Of The Administrative System Clerk: The Administrative System
Clerk shall institute and maintain record keeping programs for the
administrative adjudication system created hereunder, on a day-to-day basis,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Input of hearing and notice dates.
      3.   Input of fine and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issuance of receipts for payment.
      5.   Issuance of succeeding notices of hearing dates or court dates and/
or final determination of liability as directed by the Supervisor or by the
Hearing Officer in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Maintenance of accurate records of hearing dispositions, fines and
penalties assessed and paid.
   E.   Powers Of The Hearing Room Personnel: The hearing room personnel shall
be full-time, part-time or auxiliary police officers. The hearing room
personnel shall:
      1.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required to
maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Have and carry out such authority as is granted by law.
   F.   Selection And Appointment Of Personnel: The Village President shall
assign the duties of Administrative System Clerk and hearing room personnel to
Village employees and may designate a Village employee to act as Supervisor or
appoint any Village resident with appropriate legal or administrative
experience to serve as Supervisor.
   G.   Compensation: Compensation to be paid for any of the above- stated
positions shall be established annually by the President and Board of Trustees
through the Village's annual budget process. Compensation shall be determined
by the Village President within approved budget limitations.
   H.   Rules: The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of
administrative adjudication hearings shall be published and kept on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk where they shall be available to the public for
inspection and copying. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-5: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment: The Village President shall appoint one (1) or more
qualified Hearing Officers to perform the functions set forth in this section.
   B.   Independent Contractor: A Hearing Officer shall be employed as an
independent contractor of the Village and shall not be considered an employee
of the Village. A Hearing Officer may be removed, with or without cause, by the
Village President.
   C.   Qualifications: To qualify as a Hearing Officer, an individual must:
      1.   Be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for
at least three (3) years;
      2.   Be in good standing with the Illinois Supreme Court Attorney
Registration and Disciplinary Commission;
      3.   Complete a formal training program approved by the Village President
and the Village Attorney consisting of:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure for administrative
hearings,
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of this Code that will be
adjudicated,
         c.   Observation of hearings conducted by Illinois municipalities that
have adopted the administrative hearing system, and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical hearings, including ruling on
evidence and issuance of final orders.
   D.   Compensation: Authorization for compensation for a Hearing Officer
shall be made by the President and Board of Trustees through the Village's
annual budget process. Compensation shall be determined by the Village
President within approved budget limitations.
   E.   Authority And Powers: The authority of the Hearing Officer shall
encompass all acts necessary for conducting fair and impartial adjudicatory
hearings, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Holding conferences for the settlement or simplification of the
issues.
      2.   Administering oaths and affirmations.
      3.   Hearing testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
allegation of a Code violation.
      4.   Asking questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to
ensure the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record.
      5.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives.
      6.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing, including
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      7.   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, on whether a Code violation occurred or exists, which determination
shall be final for purposes of judicial review under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law. The Hearing Officer's determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order,
including the fine, penalty, or other action with which the respondent must
comply.
      8.   Upon finding a respondent liable for violating one (1) or more
charged Code provisions:
         a.   Imposing penalties as provided by the governing penalty
provision, except, however, that in no event shall the Hearing Officer have
authority to: 1) impose a penalty of incarceration; or 2) impose a fine in
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), excluding allowable costs. When
applicable, each day a Code provision is found to have been violated by the
respondent shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense
subjects the respondent to the penalty provided by the governing penalty
provision. The maximum monetary fine imposed under this chapter shall be
exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with
the Village's ordinances but such maximum fine shall not be applicable to cases
to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the Village.
         b.   Assessing hearing costs of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to fifty
dollars ($50.00), based upon the complexity of the matter heard, as adjusted
from time to time in the fee schedule adopted pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this title.
         c.   Imposing, in addition to fines, administrative and/or enforcement
costs and, when applicable, costs incurred by the Village for effecting
compliance with Code provision(s) for which a respondent has been found liable.
         d.   Ordering, notwithstanding fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to comply with Code provision(s) found to have been violated, and,
if appropriate, ordering the respondent to post a compliance bond as provided
by section
1-14-12 of this chapter.
         e.   Ordering, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to perform a term of community service.
         f.   Ordering, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
payment of an amount set by the Office of Administrative Hearings Supervisor
for court costs.
      9.   Ordering the respondent to apply for and seek approval of permits,
if necessary after the fact, to correct a violation in conformance with
applicable provisions of this Code.
      10.   Adhering to the policies, procedures and legislation set forth in
this Code, except where discretion is specifically vested in the Hearing
Officer; provided, however, that the Hearing Officer is authorized to waive the
fine and/or costs that otherwise would be imposed upon finding a respondent
liable for one (1) or more Code violations when the Hearing Officer
specifically finds as a matter of fact that the violation(s) occurred under
such circumstances that, as a reasonable person, would constitute an excuse for
the violation(s). (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-6: VIOLATION NOTICE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the Division of Administrative Adjudication
shall be commenced against the party alleged to have violated one (1) or more
Code provision(s) by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document
and shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   A violation notice of any Code violation in the form of a citation or
other charging document shall be issued by the persons authorized under this
chapter, shall contain information as to the nature of the Code violation,
shall be certified, and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the Code
violation cited.
   B.   All full-time and part-time police officers, as well as other
specifically authorized individuals of any department of the Village, shall
have the authority to issue violation notices.
   C.   Any individual authorized to issue violation notices who detects a Code
violation, is authorized to issue a violation notice thereof and shall serve
the violation notice in the manner set forth in this Code.
   D.   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
certified by the person issuing the notice through signing his or her name to
the violation notice at the time of issuance.
   E.   The Administrative Adjudication Division shall retain the original or a
facsimile of the violation notice and keep it as a record in the ordinary
course of business.
   F.   The violation notice or a copy thereof shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or judicial proceeding to the extent permitted by
law.
   G.   Parties shall be given notice of the adjudicatory hearing which
includes the type and nature of the Code violation to be adjudicated, the date
and location of the hearing the legal authority and jurisdiction under which
the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear at the
hearing. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-7: SERVICE - DUE PROCESS:
   A.   The respondent named in a violation notice shall be given notice of the
date of the hearing which may appear on the face of a charging document. Notice
of the hearing date may be given in any of the following ways: 1) by first
class mail or by overnight or two-day commercial delivery service at the
respondent's last known address or if the respondent is a business entity, at
any address identified for its registered agent or at its principal place of
business; or 2) by personal service; 3) by posting upon the property that is
the site of the alleged violation(s) when the respondent is the owner or
manager of the property; or 4) by any other means permitted by law for service
of civil summons.
   B.   Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that
for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, unless otherwise
specified by other legislation or rule, the respondent shall have at least
fifteen (15) days after service of notice to prepare for the hearing. For
purposes of this subsection B, "nonemergency situation" means any situation
that does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare. If service is provided by first class mail or by overnight or two-day
commercial delivery service, the fifteen-day period shall begin to run on the
date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States mail or
given to the commercial delivery service, as applicable.
   C.   The original or a legible copy of the violation notice (whether a
citation or other charging document) shall be filed with the Division of
Administrative Adjudication as soon as practicable at the place and in the
manner as the Supervisor of the Administrative Adjudication Division directs.
Upon receiving the original or legible copy of violation notice, the Division
of Administrative Adjudication shall select a hearing date and give respondent
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing in the manner set forth in
subsection B of this section, unless the violation notice sets forth the date,
time and location of the hearing and was served on the respondent by the
issuing officer or other agent of the Village authorized to issue violation
notices. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-8: HEARINGS:
All hearings conducted under the Administrative Adjudication Division
("hearing") shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer and shall be in accordance
with the following rules and procedures:
   A.   All hearings conducted by the Administrative Adjudication Division are
open to the public and shall be presided over by the Hearing Officer who is
charged with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
   B.   The Village shall not be represented by an employee or other
representative of the Division of Administrative Adjudication; provided,
however, that documentary evidence, prepared by another department of the
Village and submitted in advance to the Division of Administrative Adjudication
(with or without the presence of the Village officer who certified the charging
document) may be made part of the record at the hearing by the Hearing Officer.
The case for the Village may be presented by an attorney designated by the
Village President or Village Attorney but not by an employee or other
representative of the Administrative Adjudication Division. The Hearing Officer
shall have the authority to require the presence of the Village officer issuing
the citation or any other Village personnel or witnesses to testify at the
hearing.
   C.   The case for the respondent may be presented by the respondent or by an
attorney or agent of the respondent. An attorney or agent appearing at a
hearing on behalf of a respondent shall present the Hearing Officer with a
signed appearance form stating, on oath or affirmation, that he or she has been
authorized by the respondent to represent the respondent at the hearing. The
Hearing Officer shall permit persons to contest the merits of an alleged
parking violation subject to the administrative adjudication procedures of this
chapter without attending a hearing.
   D.   The parties presenting the case may call witnesses to testify and
cross-examine opposing witnesses who are present at the hearing. All testimony
shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   E.   All hearings shall be conducted on the date set for hearing. For good
cause shown, the Hearing Officer may grant a continuance at the discretion of
the Hearing Officer. The purpose of administrative hearings is to provide a
prompt resolution of alleged Code violations, and accordingly, the request for,
and the grant of, continuances shall be curtailed to the extent fairness
permits. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance.
   F.   The Supervisor of the Administrative Adjudication Division shall
determine the manner in which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation
may be made by audio recording or other appropriate means. Recording by any
means by any member of the public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by
the Supervisor. The record of all hearings before a Hearing Officer shall
include: 1) a record of the testimony presented at the hearing; 2) all
documents, exhibits, and other physical evidence presented at the hearing and
admitted into evidence; 3) a copy of the notice of violation and notice of
hearing; and 4) a copy of the findings, decision, and order of the Hearing
Officer's final determination. Any party may request that the proceedings be
taken and transcribed by a certified Court Reporter. The cost of the Reporter
shall be borne by the party requesting the Court Reporter. If the Village makes
a tape recording of the proceedings, a respondent may obtain the transcript at
respondent's cost.
   G.   Parties may request the Hearing Officer to issue, and the Hearing
Officer shall have the authority to issue, subpoenas to direct the attendance
and testimony of relevant witnesses and produce relevant documents. Issuance of
subpoenas shall be at the discretion of the Hearing Officer.
   H.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   I.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence; provided, however, that the original or a legible copy of the
violation notice, issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
Code, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified
therein.
   J.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a final
determination. After issuing a final determination of liability, the Hearing
Officer may impose fines, assess costs, and make orders, all as provided herein
and as are consistent with the specific Code provision(s) found to have been
violated. In addition, the Hearing Officer shall have the discretion to assess
costs upon finding a respondent liable for the charged violation. In no event
shall the Hearing Officer have authority to: 1) impose a penalty of
incarceration, or 2) impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The maximum monetary fine shall be exclusive of costs of
enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with this Code and shall not
be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and
collected by the Village.
   K.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall inform the
parties orally and in writing of his/her determination, which determination
constitutes a final determination for purposes of judicial review and is
subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3 et seq. Based on the charging document and the evidence
admitted, the Hearing Officer may issue the following determination: liable,
not liable, or liable upon a plea of no contest. The Hearing Officer also may
dismiss the case with or without prejudice or grant a properly made motion by
the Village voluntarily dismissing the case. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-9: SUBPOENAS:
   A.   Issuing Subpoenas: Either on Hearing Officer's motion or upon the
request of a party, the Hearing Officer may issue subpoenas in connection with
the adjudication of a charged Code violation.
   B.   Enforcement: Subpoenas shall only be enforceable against persons or for
documents that have a relevant evidentiary connection with the: 1) subject
matter; and 2) facts which are relevant to the case and related to a contested
issue in the case. A party's request to the Hearing Officer for a subpoena must
be timely. Service of subpoenas shall be made in the same manner as summons in
a civil action.
   C.   Content: A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      1.   The person to whom it is directed;
      2.   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any; and
      3.   The date, time, and place for the appearance of the witnesses and
the production of the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   D.   Appearance: The date identified for the appearance of the witnesses or
the production of the documents or other items shall not be less than seven (7)
days after service of the subpoena.
   E.   Contesting The Subpoena: Within three (3) business days of being served
with a subpoena issued in accordance with this chapter, the recipient of the
subpoena may appeal the order authorizing the issuance of the subpoena, by
filing a written appeal detailing the nature of any objection(s). The appeal
shall be filed with the Administrative Hearing Supervisor. A hearing on the
objections shall be scheduled for the next scheduled hearing date in the case,
with the initiator of the subpoena bearing the responsibility for notifying all
parties. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-10: VIOLATIONS OF ORDERS:
Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided
in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by a
Hearing Officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena,
shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to
its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be enforceable only
by the Lake County judicial system and shall be punishable by applicable law.
Each day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate and
distinct offense. In a prosecution under this section, it shall not be a
defense that a person came into compliance with an order, sought judicial
review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to its
effective date. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-11: DEFAULT:
   A.   If at the time set for the hearing, the respondent or respondent's
attorney or agent of record, fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may enter a
default judgment of liability against the respondent and impose fines and
assess costs in addition to any other remedy provided by this Code. A copy of
the order of default shall be served in any manner for service of a violation
notice permitted by this chapter and applicable to the violation. A copy of the
default judgment, which is a final determination, shall apprise the respondent
of the procedure for setting aside the default judgment and also shall apprise
the respondent of the availability of an appeal of the default judgment to the
Circuit Court of Lake County. The default judgment shall be mailed promptly to
the respondent as provided by subsection
1-14-7A of this chapter.
   B.   A respondent against whom a default judgment has been entered may file
a motion with the Division of Administrative Adjudication to set aside the
default judgment and for a new hearing. A motion to set aside a default
judgment may be filed at any time if the respondent alleges lack of subject
matter or personal jurisdiction; in all other cases, the motion must be filed
within twenty one (21) days of entry of the default judgment excepting
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. A motion to set aside a default judgment
shall set forth the reason(s) the respondent failed to appear on the original
hearing date. A Hearing Officer shall hear and rule on the motion. If the
Hearing Officer grants the motion, a hearing will be held immediately on the
alleged Code violation(s) set forth in notice of violation, citation, or other
charging document unless the respondent requests another hearing date and
presents for good cause for continuing the hearing.
   C.   If any default judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the
Hearing Officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any lien
which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the Village as a result of
the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-12: FINES; COMPLIANCE BOND:
   A.   All fines and other monies to be paid to the Village in accordance with
this chapter shall be remitted to the Village through the Office of the
Administrative Hearings Supervisor and deposited in the appropriate Village
account as designated by the Village President.
   B.   1.   In order to ensure that Code violations are remedied in a timely
manner, a Hearing Officer, upon issuing a determination of liability that
includes an order of compliance, may order the respondent in the case to obtain
a bond to ensure respondent's timely compliance with the Code provision(s)
found to have been violated. Any bond ordered pursuant to this subsection B1,
shall name the Village as beneficiary and shall be in the amount specified by
the Hearing Officer, provided that the amount of the bond shall be reasonably
related to the cost of compliance. Any bond issued as a result of a Hearing
Officer's order is subject to review and modification by the Village President
or his/her designee as to form and amount. If the respondent fails to remedy in
a timely manner the Code violation(s) for which a bond has been ordered and
issued and the Village undertakes remediation or otherwise expends funds
related to the Code violation(s) for which a bond has been ordered and issued,
the Hearing Officer, after giving the parties notice and opportunity to be
heard, may issue an order permitting the Village to draw against the bond in an
appropriate amount. The Hearing Officer shall order the bond amount, less the
reasonable costs incurred by the Village, returned to the respondent upon proof
of compliance with the Code provision(s) found to have been violated.
      2.   In the event a respondent ordered to secure a bond as provided by
subsection B1 of this section seeks judicial review of that portion of the
Hearing Officer's order requiring a bond and prevails on that issue, the
Village shall release the bond, and if the Village has drawn against the bond,
the Village shall refund to the respondent the total amount drawn within thirty
(30) days of receiving a copy of the reviewing court's mandate. (Ord. 17-05-06,
5-16-2017)
1-14-13: ENFORCEMENT OF HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
   A.   Any fine and any administrative, enforcement, or compliance costs
imposed by a Hearing Officer's order that remain unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures, unless stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, shall be a debt due and owing the Village and
may be collected in any manner authorized by applicable law.
   B.   After the expiration of the period for which judicial review may be
sought, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Hearing
Officer's determination of liability may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a respondent fails to comply with a Hearing
Officer's order to correct a Code violation, any expenses incurred by the
Village to enforce the Hearing Officer's order, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, court costs and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
Hearing Officer, shall be a debt due and owing by the respondent to the
Village. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing Officer pursuant to
this subsection, the respondent shall be provided with notice that directs the
respondent to appear at a hearing before a Hearing Officer to determine whether
the respondent has failed to comply with a valid order. The notice shall set
the place and the time for the hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7)
days from the date the notice is served. Notice may be served by first class
mail or by an overnight commercial delivery service and the seven-day period
shall begin to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail or
with the overnight commercial delivery service.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount
of a debt due and owing the Village. The lien may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   E.   If any fine, penalty, and/or cost is owing and unpaid after a
determination of liability under this chapter has become final and the
respondent has exhausted or failed to exhaust judicial procedures for review,
the Supervisor of the Administrative Adjudication Division shall cause a notice
of final determination of liability to be sent to the respondent.
   F.   If respondent fails to pay such fine or penalty within fourteen (14)
days after the notice of final determination of liability, then the Village,
while pursuing any debt collection authorized by law, may also decline to issue
or renew any license, permit, zoning variance, or other permission required and
applied for by respondent under any chapter of titles 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and
12 of this Code until respondent pays such fine or penalty.
   G.   When the Supervisor of the Administrative Adjudication Division becomes
aware that a respondent has failed to pay such fine or penalty within the
prescribed fourteen (14) day period, he/she shall notify the Village
departments responsible for issuing the aforementioned licenses and permits
that respondent has a delinquent debt, and that no licenses or permits may be
issued to the respondent until the debt has been fully satisfied. At or prior
to the time when a respondent applies for a license or permit, or for a renewal
of such license or permit, the department that is responsible for issuing the
license or permit shall notify the respondent that he/she is ineligible for
such license or permit issuance or renewal due to the outstanding debt. The
notice shall inform the respondent that he/she may request a description of the
outstanding debt from the Administrative Hearings Supervisor, and shall inform
the respondent of his/her right to appeal the denial of the license or permit
under this section. If notice is provided by mail, it shall be sufficient to
mail the notice to the last address the respondent provided to the issuing
department. The date of notice shall be the date the notice was deposited in
the mail, if served by first class mail; the date of delivery, if served by
personal service; or the date of service if served by any other manner.
   H.   Upon the respondent's request, the Administrative Hearings Supervisor
shall provide the respondent with a written description of his or her
outstanding debt. A respondent shall have ten (10) business days from the date
of notice to appeal the department's denial by requesting a hearing by the
Village President, or his/her designee. Requests for hearing shall be made in
writing to the Village President. A request for hearing shall include: the full
name, address and telephone number of the respondent; a written statement
signed by the respondent setting forth facts, law or other information relevant
to establishing a defense to the department's denial; a copy of the notice
provided to the respondent by the license/permit issuing department under
subsection G of this section; and, any documentary evidence that supports the
respondent's appeal, including receipts for the payment of an alleged debt.
Upon receipt of a timely and proper request for a hearing, the Village
President or his/her designee shall assign a hearing date no later than fifteen
(15) business days after the date of request. The hearing shall not be
continued without the consent of the respondent. The Village President, or his/
her designee, shall determine whether or not the respondent is ineligible for a
license/permit pursuant to this section. The hearing shall comply with the
following provisions:
      1.   The Village President, or his/her designee, shall abide by any prior
determination that a debt exists and the scope of review shall be limited to
whether the debt has been satisfied and whether the determination that a debt
exists was issued against the respondent. The petitioner shall not be entitled
to raise any defenses related to his or her liability for the underlying debt.
      2.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
      3.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Village President or his/her
designee shall issue a final order that the respondent is either eligible or
ineligible for issuance or renewal of the license/permit. If the respondent is
found to be ineligible, the petitioner's license/permit may not be issued or
renewed prior to the payment of the outstanding debt. The Village President, or
his/her designee, shall issue a final order no more than fifteen (15) business
days after the conclusion of the hearing.
   I.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections G and H of this section,
the Village may issue an initial or renewal license or permit to a respondent
if the Director of the issuing department determines that:
      1.   The respondent has entered into an agreement with a court of
competent jurisdiction, or other appropriate Village department or agency, for
the payment of all debts owed and the respondent is in compliance with the
agreement; or
      2.   The respondent is contesting liability for or the amount of the debt
in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding; or
      3.   The respondent has filed a petition in bankruptcy and the debts owed
are dischargeable in bankruptcy.
   J.   When the holder of a license or permit is notified in accordance with
subsection G of this section, that such license or permit will not be renewed
unless an outstanding judgment is paid, the license or permit shall remain in
effect during the pendency of the appeal process described in subsection H of
this section. When a license or permit is found to be eligible for renewal
through the appeal process, it shall remain in effect until the renewal is
issued. When a license or permit is found to be ineligible for renewal through
the appeal process, it shall expire at such time as the license or permit
holder has exhausted or failed to exhaust the appeal procedures described in
subsection H of this section.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Village from enforcing or
seeking to enforce any order of a Hearing Officer in any manner provided by
law. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
1-14-14: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
In no case may the Division of Administrative Adjudication conduct an
adjudication hearing for an alleged Code violation where the remedy provided
for is a punishment of imprisonment. Nothing in this chapter, however, shall
preclude the Village from petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to
adjudicate any ordinance violation or from petitioning a court of competent
jurisdiction to impose the remedy of imprisonment for failure to comply with an
order of a Hearing Officer. (Ord. 17-05-06, 5-16-2017)
CHAPTER 15
FINANCIAL REPORTING
SECTION:
1-15-1: Fund Balance Policies
1-15-1: FUND BALANCE POLICIES:
As used in this chapter, the term "fund balance" shall refer to the difference
between assets and liabilities reported in a governmental fund to measure the
current financial resources available to finance expenditures of future
periods. The village adopts the policies for fund balance reporting set forth
in the governmental accounting standards board (GASB) statement 54, fund
balance reporting and governmental fund type definitions (GASB 54), and each
governmental fund reported in the annual financial statements prepared by the
village shall report the following components of fund balance, as defined
below:
ASSIGNED: Amounts that are constrained by the village's intent to be used for a
specific purpose, but are neither restricted nor committed. Intent may be
expressed by the board of trustees by formal or informal action.
COMMITTED: Amounts that can only be used for specific purposes pursuant to
constraints imposed by formal action of the board of trustees. The board of
trustees may commit fund balances by passing a resolution or ordinance. Amounts
so committed cannot be used for any other purpose unless the board of trustees
removes or changes the specific use by taking the same type of formal action it
employed to previously commit those funds.
NONSPENDABLE: Amounts that cannot be spent because they are either not in
spendable form or legally or contractually required to be maintained intact.
The nonspendable component includes items that are not expected to be converted
to cash such as prepaid items or inventories.
RESTRICTED: Amounts that are subject to outside restrictions, such as
creditors, grantors, contributors, laws and regulations of other governments,
or imposed by law through enabling legislation. Special revenue funds are by
definition restricted for those specified purposes.
UNASSIGNED: All spendable amounts not contained in the classifications for
nonspendable amounts, restricted amounts, committed amounts or assigned
amounts. In funds other than the general fund, the unassigned classification
shall be used only to report a deficit balance resulting from overspending for
specific purposes for which amounts had been restricted, committed, or
assigned.
Expenditures (unless specifically identified) shall act first to reduce
restricted fund balances (when appropriate), followed in order by: committed
fund balances, assigned fund balances and lastly, unassigned fund balances.
Expenditures for a specifically identified purpose shall act to reduce the
specific classification of fund balance that is identified. The foregoing
policies for fund balance reporting shall be deemed modified as necessary to
comply with GASB 54 as amended from time to time. (Ord. 11-11-27, 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 16
PURCHASING AND CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Purchasing Policy And Procedures
1-16-2: Competitive Bid Procedures For Certain Contracts
1-16-3: Exceptions To Competitive Bid Requirements
1-16-4: Delegation Of Authority
1-16-5: Joint Purchase Agreements
1-16-6: Special Assessments And Special Service Areas
1-16-1: PURCHASING POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
Except as provided in this chapter, all purchase orders for supplies, and all
contracts for the performance of any work or other public improvement which is
not to be paid in whole or in part by special assessment or special taxation,
shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder pursuant to procedures set forth
in a written purchasing policy to be established by the village president. The
purchasing procedure may provide for the waiver of the bidding requirement in
the event of an emergency affecting public health or safety and for contracts
which by their nature are not adaptable to competitive bidding. (Ord. 16-05-10,
5-17-2016)
1-16-2: COMPETITIVE BID PROCEDURES FOR CERTAIN CONTRACTS:
Any contract for the performance of any work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by a special assessment or special
taxation, when the expense of such work or public improvement exceeds the
amount prescribed in section
8-9-1 of the Illinois municipal code, shall be let to the lowest responsible
bidder pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section. All proposals to
award such contracts via competitive bidding shall include the dates for
receiving and opening bids and shall be published at least ten (10) days in
advance of the date for the receiving of bids, in a newspaper in general
circulation throughout the village. The village president may conduct such
further publication of the proposal as he or she deems necessary. Publications
of the proposal need give only a general description of the work, detailed
drawings, plans and specifications which shall be on file with the village
clerk. The village president may extend the time for the receiving and opening
of bids upon publication in a newspaper in general circulation in the village
at least five (5) days in advance of the new date. (Ord. 16-05-10, 5-17-2016)
1-16-3: EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BID REQUIREMENTS:
Any contract subject to bidding pursuant to section
1-16-2 of this chapter, except contracts for the making of a public improvement
to be paid for in whole or in part by a special assessment or special taxation,
may be entered into by the proper village officer or officers without
advertising for bids if authorized by the vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the
trustees. (Ord. 16-05-10, 5-17-2016)
1-16-4: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
The board of trustees may provide that a provider of construction management
services to the village, with respect to the construction of any particular
work or public improvement, is granted the authority to execute change orders
on behalf of the village with the contractors engaged to perform such work;
provided, the amount of such change order does not individually exceed the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and the cumulative amount of all such
approved change orders does not exceed the amount established as the
construction contingency for such project in the project budget approved by the
board of trustees. The terms and conditions of such delegation shall be set
forth in the agreement for services entered into with such construction
manager. (Ord. 16-05-10, 5-17-2016)
1-16-5: JOINT PURCHASE AGREEMENTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the village from
entering into contracts in accordance with state statutes relating to joint
purchase agreements. (Ord. 16-05-10, 5-17-2016)
1-16-6: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AND SPECIAL SERVICE AREAS:
Any contract for work or other public improvement which is to be paid for in
whole or in part by special assessment or special taxation shall be let in the
manner prescribed by applicable provisions of this code and state statutes.
(Ord. 16-05-10, 5-17-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY SERVICES DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment
2-1-2: Service As A Mobile Support Team
2-1-3: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-1-4: Emergency Action
2-1-5: Compensation Of ESDA Members
2-1-6: Powers And Duties Of The Organization
2-1-7: Reimbursement By State
2-1-8: Purchases And Expenditures
2-1-9: Oath
2-1-10: Office
2-1-11: Village President; Emergency Powers
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to the Illinois emergency management agency act 1
("IEMA act") there is hereby created a local emergency management agency of the
village to be known as the Riverwoods emergency services disaster agency
("ESDA") to coordinate the emergency management program within the village and
with private organizations, other political subdivisions, and the state and
federal governments. The village from time to time shall prepare and adopt an
all hazards document that establishes emergency management activities for the
village following the principles of the Illinois emergency management agency
(IEMA), the national incident management systems (NIMS) and the national
response plan (NRP), to be known as the village of Riverwoods emergency
operations plan ("EOP").
   B.   The village president shall be the executive in charge of the ESDA.
   C.   The village president shall designate a coordinator (the "ESDA
coordinator"), who shall be the assistant to the village president with the
duty of coordinating the emergency management program for the village
consistent with the applicable provisions of the IEMA act and the EOP. The ESDA
coordinator shall be so identified in the EOP. The ESDA coordinator shall serve
at the pleasure of the village president. The ESDA coordinator shall have
direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training and
operation of the ESDA, subject to the supervision of the village president and
the policy direction and budgeting control of the village board as provided by
statute.
   D.   All other members of the ESDA shall be: 1) those persons from time to
time designated in the EOP and 2) any other persons appointed or designated by
the ESDA coordinator, who shall serve at the pleasure of the ESDA coordinator.
(Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-1-2: SERVICE AS A MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   All or any members of the ESDA may be designated as members of a mobile
support team created by the director of the Illinois emergency management
agency (the "IEMA") to aid and to reinforce the IEMA and emergency services and
disaster agencies as provided by law.
   B.   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the ESDA
coordinator.
   C.   Any member of a mobile support team who is a paid village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state director
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and
immunities incident to such village employment or office. Any such member who
is not a paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, may receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law or may receive
reasonable compensation as provided by the village board. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-
18-2014)
2-1-3: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The ESDA coordinator may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipal
corporations or political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal aid and
assistance, pursuant to law, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the village board. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-4: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that an emergency exists in the event of a disaster,
as defined in the IEMA act, then it shall be the duty of the ESDA to cooperate
fully with the IEMA in the provision of emergency services as provided in the
IEMA act. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-5: COMPENSATION OF ESDA MEMBERS:
   A.   Neither the village president, the ESDA coordinator, nor members of the
ESDA shall receive compensation from the village for their services in the
ESDA, but this provision shall not affect their compensation authorized by the
village for other services to the village or their compensation for activities
related to the ESDA as otherwise provided by law.
   B.   If members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the
village are called for training by the director of the IEMA, then they shall
receive for time spent in such training the same rate of pay as they may
receive from the village while performing their regular duties and obligations
for the village.
   C.   Members of the ESDA who are neither employees or officers of the
village shall receive for such training time only such compensation as may be
provided by law. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The village president shall be the chairperson of the ESDA. The ESDA
shall meet at the call of the village president who shall be advised on all
matters pertaining to emergency services.
   B.   The ESDA shall, from time to time, recommend to the village board
action or procedures necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the village as it may deem necessary or advisable in order
to carry out the purposes of this chapter and of the IEMA act, including, but
not limited to:
      1.   The creation of separate departments for the performance of the
several functions of the ESDA.
      2.   The specification of the duties and functions of each department,
particularly with respect to preparation for any emergency which may require
the active interposition of the ESDA in order to protect the community, and
with respect to action to be taken upon occurrence of any such emergency.
      3.   The formulation of a plan of action, to be coordinated with the
Illinois emergency preparedness plan and program, and to serve particularly the
residents of the village and of any surrounding area.
   C.   Any regulations of the ESDA shall not become effective until approved
by the village board. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-7: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement received from the state for expenses incident to training members
of the ESDA as prescribed by the director of the IEMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the governor or the director of the IEMA,
and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to the ESDA's activities
as provided by law. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-8: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The village president, on recommendation of the ESDA coordinator, and
upon approval of the village board, may authorize any purchase or contracts
necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively any manmade
or natural disaster or to protect the public health and safety, protect
property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster.
   B.   In the event of a disaster, the ESDA coordinator is authorized to
procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes in view of the exigency of the circumstances without regard to
the procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to
contracts or obligations, as authorized by law; provided, however, that should
the village board meet in a timely fashion, he or she shall seek approval of
such actions and be subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that
body. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-9: OATH:
Every member of the ESDA, and every person who is appointed to serve in any
capacity in connection therewith, shall take the following oath in writing
before the ESDA coordinator or other person authorized to administer oaths in
this state:
   I,                      do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the United
States and the constitution of the state of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Village of Riverwoods, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence.
(Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-10: OFFICE:
The village president is authorized to designate space in the village hall for
the office of the ESDA, or such other location as may be provided by the
village. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
2-1-11: VILLAGE PRESIDENT; EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   Emergency Powers: Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the police
protection and public order provisions contained in the Illinois municipal code
under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-6, during a state of emergency, the
village president shall have the extraordinary power and authority to exercise,
by executive order, such of the powers of the corporate authorities as may be
reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CIVIL DISTURBANCE: A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting in concert without
authority of law.
   CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any sidewalk, alley, street, highway,
public property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
not including officials of any governmental unit and persons officially
designated to duty with reference to such civil emergency.
   NATURAL DISASTER OR MANMADE CALAMITY: Includes flood, railroad or vehicle
wrecks, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, explosion, drought,
aircraft crashes, or any other occurrence of such magnitude within the
corporate limits of the village that extraordinary measures must be taken to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   Emergency Powers; Duration: Whenever any civil disturbance, natural
disaster or manmade calamity shall occur within the corporate limits which are
sufficiently extensive and reach such proportions that law and order cannot be
maintained by available methods, the village president, by this section and as
may be otherwise provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-6, is
empowered to:
      1.   Suspend the sale and/or provision of liquor and alcoholic beverages
by establishments licensed under the ordinances of the village;
      2.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products;
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      4.   Set curfew hours for all persons within the corporate limits of the
village during such hours of the day or night as deemed necessary;
      5.   Order the evacuation of all residences, businesses and other
buildings as may be deemed necessary;
      6.   Call on the national guard through the office of the governor in
accordance with the Illinois internal security plan as outlined by the adjutant
general of the state of Illinois when the local law enforcement authorities are
unable to cope with a dangerous or disastrous situation; and
      7.   Issue any other order as is imminently necessary for the protection
of life, property, health, safety, and the public welfare.
The orders authorized in this subsection may be issued singly or together.
   D.   Justification: Whenever the village president shall deem it necessary
to invoke the emergency powers set forth in this section, the village president
shall, as soon as practical, but in no case longer than twelve (12) hours from
the time of the invocation of the powers, notify the village clerk and the
village board, in writing, under oath, of his or her reasons for invoking such
emergency powers and giving justification for such actions.
   E.   Time Limit: The emergency powers given to the village president by this
section shall not, without village board approval, extend beyond any seven (7)
day period (Sundays and holidays included) for any one occurrence of a civil
disturbance, natural disaster or manmade calamity, nor later than the
adjournment of the first regular meeting of the village board after the state
of emergency is declared.
   F.   Public Notification: Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized,
the village clerk shall notify one of the news media publications whose papers
are of general circulation in the village and shall cause two (2) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village: the village hall and the village police
station.
   G.   Emergency Powers; Order Of Succession: Should the village president be
unavailable, the emergency powers of the village president shall be carried
according to the EOP then in effect.
   H.   Violations: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or
executive order issued pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an offense against
the village, and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
undermine the powers granted to the Riverwoods police department or any other
operating department of the village, but shall be construed together with
existing ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of
the village. (Ord. 14-11-25, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Meetings Of The Commission
2-2-3: Minutes And Commission Records
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Previous Plan Commission
2-2-6: Meeting Fees
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a plan commission for the village, which commission
shall be the same as that referenced in the Riverwoods zoning ordinance. The
plan commission shall consist of a chairman and six (6) members appointed by
the village president, subject to confirmation by the trustees.
Commencing on June 1, 2009, the term of office of the chairman and three (3)
members of the plan commission appointed at such time shall be for four (4)
years or until their respective successors are appointed; and the terms of
office of the other three (3) members of the plan commission then appointed
shall be for two (2) years or until their respective successors are appointed.
Commencing on June 1, 2011, the terms of office of all members of the plan
commission then and thereafter appointed shall be for four (4) years or until
their respective successors are appointed. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-2009)
2-2-2: MEETINGS OF THE COMMISSION:
All meetings of the plan commission and all hearings shall be open to the
public except when closed pursuant to the provisions of the open meetings act 1
. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman, at the request of the
village president, and at such other times as the commission may determine. The
commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure consistent with village
ordinances and any controlling state law. Such rules and all amendments thereto
shall be filed in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1.
2-2-3: MINUTES AND COMMISSION RECORDS:
The village president shall designate a recording secretary of the plan
commission, who shall attend all of its proceedings. The recording secretary
shall keep the minutes of the proceedings of the commission, showing the vote
of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact. With the assistance of the recording secretary, the village clerk
shall maintain permanent records of all commission meetings, hearings and
proceedings and all correspondence of the commission. The village clerk shall
provide for keeping a file of all records of the commission, and such records
shall, except to the extent provided by the freedom of information act 1
be public records open to inspection. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the plan commission shall be those enumerated in the
applicable statutes of the state of Illinois and the applicable ordinances of
the village. The commission shall also perform such other duties as may, from
time to time, be requested by the board of trustees, or by the president of the
board of trustees. (Ord. 142, 7-21-1969)
2-2-5: PREVIOUS PLAN COMMISSION:
The plan commission hereby created shall, for all intents and purposes, be
considered a continuation of the previous plan commission. Those members
serving unexpired terms on the commission shall be appointed to similar
unexpired terms on the commission hereby created, with their consent. (Ord.
143, 7-21-1969; amd. 1982 Code)
2-2-6: MEETING FEES:
Any request for a meeting of the plan commission by any person, firm or
corporation, shall be subject to a fee as established by the village fee
schedule, to be paid by the party requesting said meeting. Said fee shall be
deposited with the village clerk and shall be applied to the general fund. In
addition, the party requesting such meeting shall pay to the village all
expenses incurred by the village in connection with such meeting. (Ord. 91-1-2,
1-15-1991)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Of Appeals Established
2-3-2: Meetings; Minutes And Board Records
2-3-3: Jurisdiction
2-3-4: Previous Board Of Appeals
2-3-5: Meeting Fees
2-3-1: BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a board of appeals for the village, which board
shall be the same as that referenced in the Riverwoods zoning ordinance. The
board of appeals shall consist of a chairman and six (6) members appointed by
the village president, subject to confirmation by the trustees.
Commencing on June 1, 2009, the term of office of the chairman and three (3)
members of the board of appeals appointed at such time shall be for four (4)
years or until their respective successors are appointed; and the terms of
office of the other three (3) members of the board of appeals then appointed
shall be for two (2) years or until their respective successors are appointed.
Commencing on June 1, 2011, the terms of office of all members of the board of
appeals then and thereafter appointed shall be for four (4) years or until
their respective successors are appointed. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-2009)
2-3-2: MEETINGS; MINUTES AND BOARD RECORDS:
   A.   All meetings of the board of appeals shall be held in accordance with
the provisions of the Riverwoods zoning ordinance. Meetings of the board may
also be called at the request of any three (3) members of the board. The board
shall adopt its own rules of procedure consistent with village ordinances and
any controlling state law. A statement of the facts found by the board shall be
included in the minutes of each case heard or considered by it. The reason for
recommending or denying any appeal, request or petition made to the board shall
also appear in the minutes. In every instance, a statement of the facts upon
which such recommendations are based shall appear in the minutes.
   B.   The village president shall designate a recording secretary of the
board of appeals, who shall attend all of its proceedings. The recording
secretary shall keep the minutes of the proceedings of the board, showing the
vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact. With the assistance of the recording secretary, the
village clerk shall maintain permanent records of all board of appeals
meetings, hearings and proceedings and all correspondence of the board. The
village clerk shall provide for keeping a file of all records of the board, and
such records shall, except to the extent provided by the freedom of information
act 1
, be public records open to inspection. (Ord. 09-11-24, 11-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2-3-3: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of the board of appeals shall extend to all matters included
in the applicable statute and in the ordinances of this village. Voting
requirements shall be as prescribed by statute. (Ord. 143, 7-21-1969)
2-3-4: PREVIOUS BOARD OF APPEALS:
The board of appeals hereby created shall, for all intents and purposes, be
considered a continuation of the previous board of appeals. Those members
serving unexpired terms on the board shall be appointed to similar unexpired
terms on the board hereby created, with their consent. (Ord. 143, 7-21-1969)
2-3-5: MEETING FEES:
Any request for a meeting of the zoning board of appeals by any person, firm or
corporation, shall be subject to a fee as established by the village fee
schedule, to be paid by the party requesting said meeting. Said fee shall be
deposited with the village clerk and shall be applied to the general fund. In
addition, the party requesting such meeting shall pay to the village all
expenses incurred by the village in connection with such meeting. (Ord. 91-1-2,
1-15-1991)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' And Service Occupation Taxes
3-1-2: Enforcement
3-1-3: Automobile Renting Taxes
3-1-4: Taxes Imposed On The Sale Of Gas And Electricity
3-1-5: Taxes Imposed On The Act Or Privilege Of Originating Or Receiving
Telecommunications
3-1-6: Municipal Electric Utility Tax
3-1-6-1: Definitions
3-1-6-2: Tax Imposed
3-1-6-3: Collection Of Tax
3-1-6-4: Tax Remittance And Return
3-1-6-5: Resales
3-1-6-6: Books And Records
3-1-6-7: Credits And Refunds
3-1-6-8: Failure To Make A Return; Fraudulent Return
3-1-7: Hotel And Motel Tax
3-1-7-1: Definition
3-1-7-2: Tax Imposed
3-1-7-3: Payment And Collection
3-1-7-4: Administration And Enforcement
3-1-7-5: Enforcement Of Payment
3-1-7-6: Disposition Of Tax Monies
3-1-7-7: Exemption
3-1-7-8: Penalty
3-1-8: Cable And Video Service Provider Fee; PEG Access Fee
3-1-8-1: Definitions
3-1-8-2: Payment Of Service Provider Fee Required
3-1-8-3: Payment Of PEG Access Support Fee Required
3-1-8-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-1-8-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-1-8-6: Penalties
3-1-9: Cable And Video Service Consumer Protection Standards
3-1-9-1: Purpose
3-1-9-2: Standards Adopted
3-1-9-3: Enforcement
3-1-9-4: Penalties
3-1-9-5: Customer Credits
3-1-10: Cable System
3-1-10-1: Title; Purposes
3-1-10-2: Authority; Conflict
3-1-10-3: Definitions
3-1-10-4: Grant Of Franchise
3-1-10-5: Representations In A Franchise Agreement
3-1-10-6: Conditions For Use Of Public Ways
3-1-10-7: General Service Obligations
3-1-10-8: Public, Education And Government Access
3-1-10-9: Emergency Alert Override System
3-1-10-10: Technical Performance; Description Of System
3-1-10-11: Customer Service Standards
3-1-10-12: Franchise Fee
3-1-10-13: Audit Rights
3-1-10-14: Indemnity; Insurance
3-1-10-15: Security Fund
3-1-10-16: Security Fund; Remedy Of Grantee Violation
3-1-10-17: Transfer Of Franchise
3-1-10-18: Franchise Renewal; Amendment
3-1-10-19: Revocation And Expiration
3-1-10-20: Village Rights
3-1-10-21: Unauthorized Connections And Modifications
3-1-10-22: Severability
3-1-11: Municipal Retail Motor Fuel Tax
3-1-11-1: Short Title
3-1-11-2: Definitions
3-1-11-3: Tax Imposed
3-1-11-4: Liability For Payment
3-1-11-5: Collection Of Tax
3-1-11-6: Filing Of Return And Payment Of Tax
3-1-11-7: Rules And Regulations
3-1-11-8: Failure To File Return Or Pay Tax When Due
3-1-11-9: Registration; Records
3-1-11-10: Penalty
3-1-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of this state's government, at retail in
this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in effect;
and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in
the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman
as an incident to a sale of service. This "home rule municipal retailers'
occupation tax" and this "home rule municipal service occupation tax" shall not
be applicable to the sales of food for human consumption which is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and
insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. The
imposition of these home rule taxes is in accordance with the provisions of
sections
8-11-1 and
8-11-5, respectively, of the Illinois municipal code 1
. (Ord. 16-03-04, 3-1-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, 5/8-11-5.
3-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax and home rule municipal
service occupation tax imposed by section
3-1-1 of this chapter and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue
of the state of Illinois, and the department of revenue shall have full power
to administer and enforce the provisions of section
3-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 10-9-20, 9-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
3-1-3: AUTOMOBILE RENTING TAXES:
   A.   Use Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the
village an automobile which is rented from a rentor outside Illinois and which
is titled or registered with an agency of this state's government in the
village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this subsection is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 155/1.
   The tax provided for in this subsection shall be collected from the persons
whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being
in this Village.
   A tax imposed by this subsection shall be paid to the Illinois Department of
Revenue. (Ord. 82-3-4, 3-15-1982, eff. 4-1-1982)
   B.   Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in the Village at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while this subsection is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 155/1.
   Every such person engaged in such business in the Village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 29, 1933, as amended.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 82-0-5, 3-15-1982,
eff. 4-1-1982)
3-1-4: TAXES IMPOSED ON THE SALE OF GAS AND ELECTRICITY:
   A.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the Village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom; (Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995)
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the Village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
gross sales; provided, however, the tax imposed under this Section shall not
apply with respect to the gross receipts pertaining to bills for distribution,
supply, furnishing or sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the
electricity is subject to the tax imposed under Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   B.   The taxes enumerated in this Section shall be in addition to the
payment of money, or value of products or services furnished to the Village by
the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places or installation and maintenance therein or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995)
   C.   No tax authorized by this Section is imposed with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made the subject of taxation by this State or any political subdivision
thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing or selling gas or electricity be subject to the taxation
under the provisions of this Section for such transactions as are or may become
subject to taxation under the provisions of the "Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act" authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, as amended. (Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995)
   D.   For the purpose of the taxes enumerated in this Section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and the consideration received
for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale, and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of transmitting such messages, without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
However, "gross receipts" shall not include any amounts added to a purchaser's
bill because of a charge made pursuant to: the tax imposed by this Section; or
additional charges added to a purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the
Public Utilities Act.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the State of Illinois, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   E.   1. On or before August 31, 1995, the taxpayers described in subsection
A of this Section, shall make a return to the Village Treasurer for the month
of July 1995. Said return shall state the following: name; principal place of
business; gross receipts during those months upon which the basis of the tax is
imposed; amount of tax; such other reasonable and related information as the
corporate authorities may require. On or before the last day of every month
thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for
a corresponding one month period. The tax provided for herein shall be based on
"gross receipts", as herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services
billed on or after July 1, 1995. (Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995; amd. Ord. 95-6-7, 6-
20-1995)
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the Village the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of the
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any difference between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts. (Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995)
      3.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this Section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this Section, from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. If a
taxpayer under this subsection is unable to use a credit authorized by this
subsection solely because the tax imposed by this Section has been replaced by
the tax imposed under Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter, then the taxpayer may apply such credit against any tax
due under Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
      4.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this Section shall commence more than three (3) years after the due date of
such amount.
   F.   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due, attorney
fees incurred by the Village, plus interest and costs. (Ord. 95-3-1, 3-7-1995)
3-1-5: TAXES IMPOSED ON THE ACT OR PRIVILEGE OF ORIGINATING OR RECEIVING
TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   A tax is imposed on any or all of the following acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in Riverwoods or receiving in
Riverwoods intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate not to exceed
five percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer by such person. However, such tax is not imposed on such
act or privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject to taxation
by municipalities in Illinois.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in Riverwoods or receiving in
Riverwoods interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate not to exceed
five percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer by such person. To prevent actual multi-state taxation
of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such
event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to an
ordinance authorized by this subsection to the extent of the amount of such tax
properly due and paid in such other state which was not previously allowed as a
credit against any other state or local tax in this State. However, such tax is
not imposed on the act or privilege to the extent such act or privilege may
not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the
subject to taxation by municipalities in Illinois.
   B.   The tax authorized by this Section shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and making or
effectuating the sale at retail and shall be remitted by such retailers to the
Village. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this Section and any such
tax collected by such retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to
the Village. Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the
tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications when sold for use in the manner prescribed by the Village.
The tax authorized by this Section shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to
the retailer who provides such taxable services until paid and, if unpaid, is
recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such taxable
services. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the Village in the manner
provided by the Village.
   C.   The tax imposed by this Section shall be in addition to the payment of
money, or value of products or services furnished to the Village by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public
places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business.
   D.   For the purpose of the taxes enumerated in this Section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in
Riverwoods regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in Riverwoods and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature, and
shall be determined without any deduction on account used, labor or service
costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount
thereof shall be included only as and when paid. However, "gross charge" shall
not include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: the tax imposed by this Section; additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act; the tax
imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act; or, the tax imposed by
section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      2.   Charges for a "sent collect" telecommunication received outside of
Riverwoods;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of date or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of
the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made); or
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunication
devices.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside Illinois.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within Illinois.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation or a receiver,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court, the
Federal and State governments, including State universities created by statute,
or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision of this State.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in the business of making "sales at
retail" as defined in this Section. The Village of Riverwoods may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this State
who, to the satisfaction of the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure
collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without
charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty
of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in Riverwoods in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within Riverwoods.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (any like term):
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within Illinois, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative or operating within Illinois under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in Illinois.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the Federal and State governments, and
State universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, when the tax has already been
paid to a retailer and the gross charge made by one such corporation to another
such corporation is not greater than the gross charge paid to the retailer for
their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. If this is not a defined location, as in
the case of mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his agents, employees or
permittee engages in the act or privilege of originating in Evanston or
receiving in Evanston telecommunications and who incurs a tax liability
hereunder.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the usual and popular meaning, includes
but is not limited to, messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange services; cellular mobile
telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging service,
or any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. The definition of "telecommunications"
shall not include value-added services in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the
information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall
not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provided for use as a component part of the service provided by him to the
ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end
communications. Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of inner-company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale.
   E.   If a person, who originates or receives telecommunications in
Riverwoods, claims to be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person
shall apply to the Village for a resale number. Such applicant shall state
facts which will show the Village why such applicant is not liable for tax
under this Section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Village may reasonably require.
      1.   Resale Number: Upon approval of the application, the Village shall
assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the
applicant. The Village may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax-free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person's having discontinued the making of resales.
      2.   Exception: Except as provided hereinabove in this Section, the act
or privilege of sending or receiving telecommunications in this State shall not
be made tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has
an active resale number from the Village and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
   F.   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due, attorney
fees incurred by the Village, plus interest and costs. (Ord. 95-3-2, 3-7-1995)
3-1-6: MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
3-1-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of the taxes enumerated in this Section
3-1-6, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions, any
State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this State, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this State under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this State permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this State.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1
, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery or sale of
electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The Village of Riverwoods. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-1-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1
and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege
of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or
consumed within the corporate limits of the Village at the following rates,
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.517 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.379 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.376 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.375 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.323 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.320 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.315 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.310 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.305 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.300 cents per kilowatt-hour.
   B.   The tax is addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the Village, the State or any other political subdivision of the
State.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section
3-1-6, the tax shall not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or
collection of the tax would violate the Constitution or statutes of the United
States or the constitution of the State of Illinois.
   D.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after August 1, 1999; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity
by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to such
customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the Public
Utilities Act 2
, or the first bill issued to such customers on or after January 1, 2001,
whichever issuance occurs sooner. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
3-1-6-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of Section
3-1-6-5 regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed
under this Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this State who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this Section
3-1-6, and any tax in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the
Village by the person delivering the electricity, provided, that the person
delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse them
for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing
and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the Village upon
request. For purposes of this Section
3-1-6, any partial payment of a billed amount not specifically identified by
the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity. (Ord. 99-
5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
3-1-6-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the Village Clerk. The return and accompanying remittance shall
be due on or before the last day of the month following the month during which
the tax is collected or is required to be collected under Section
3-1-6-3 of this Chapter.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under this Section
3-1-6, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
Village Clerk and pay the tax directly to the Village Clerk on or before the
last day of the month following the month during which the electricity is used
or consumed.
   C.   Such return shall state: The name, principal place of business, amount
of tax and such other reasonable information as the Village may require. (Ord.
99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
3-1-6-5: RESALES:
   A.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the Village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village
Clerk and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and
certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   B.   If a person who receives electricity in the Village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village
Clerk for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is
not liable for the tax imposed by this Section
3-1-6 on any purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional
information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
   C.   Upon approval of the application, the Village Clerk shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   D.   The Village Clerk may cancel the resale number of any person if the
person fails to pay any tax payable under this Section
3-1-6 for electricity used or consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was
obtained through misrepresentation; or 2) is no longer necessary because the
person has discontinued making resales.
   E.   1. If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this Section
3-1-6 directly to the Village Clerk pursuant to subsection
3-1-6-4B of this Chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to Section
3-1-6-3 of this Chapter and remit the tax pursuant to subsection
3-1-6-4A of this Chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this Section
3-1-6 shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of
the electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to
the Village Clerk the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller,
and such other information that the Village Clerk may reasonably require. (Ord.
99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
3-1-6-6: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
Section
3-1-6, shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this Section
3-1-6. The books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection
at all times during business hours of the day. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff.
8-1-1999)
3-1-6-7: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section
3-1-6, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section
3-1-6 unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one year
after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the village clerk.
(Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
3-1-6-8: FAILURE TO MAKE A RETURN; FRAUDULENT RETURN:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
3-1-6 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
tax due, plus interest and costs. (Ord. 99-5-10, 5-18-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
3-1-7: HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX:
3-1-7-1: DEFINITION:
The word "hotel" and the word "motel" within the meaning of this section
includes every building or structure, kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where lodging or lodging and food or
apartments or suites or other accommodations are offered for a consideration to
guests, in which ten (10) or more rooms, apartments or suites or other
accommodations are used for the lodging and lodging and food for such guests.
(Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of renting,
leasing or letting of rooms in a motel or hotel in the village at a rate of
five percent (5%) of the gross rental receipts from such rental, leasing or
letting. The ultimate incident of and liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the user, lessee or tenant of said rooms. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. (Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-7-3: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION:
The owner and operator of such hotel or motel and the person to whom permission
or license to operate said hotel or motel has been granted by the village shall
bear jointly and severally the duty to collect the tax from each user, lessee
or tenant of rooms in such hotel or motel. Every person required to collect the
tax levied by this section
3-1-7 shall secure said tax from the user, lessee or tenant of a room or rooms
at the time that he or she collects the price, charge or rent to which it
applies. (Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-7-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The village clerk is hereby designated as the administrator and enforcement
officer of the tax hereby imposed on behalf of the village and it shall be the
responsibility and duty of the clerk to collect all amounts due the village
from the owners, operators or licensees of motels and hotels within the city. A
sworn quarterly hotel and motel occupancy tax return shall be filed by each
owner or operator or licensee of each hotel or motel in the village with the
village clerk on forms prescribed by the clerk showing all receipts from each
renting, leasing or letting of rooms during the preceding three (3) months. The
dates upon which said quarterly returns are to be filed shall be prescribed by
the village clerk. Each return shall be accompanied by payment to the village
of all taxes due and owing for the quarter covered by the return; provided,
however, that the person making said return may retain an amount of money equal
to one percent (1%) of the tax due as compensation for services rendered in the
collection and payment of such taxes. The village president or any person
certified by him or his representative may enter the premises of any hotel or
motel for the purposes of inspection and enforcement of the provisions of this
section
3-1-7 and for the enforcement of the collection of a tax hereby imposed. (Ord.
09-10-22, 10-20-2009)
3-1-7-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
   A.   Failure To Pay: Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein
provided or when any owner, operator, licensee of a hotel or motel in the
village shall fail to collect the tax hereby imposed from any person who has
the ultimate liability for payment of the same, the village attorney, shall
upon request of the village board bring or cause to be brought an action to
enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
If the village president after hearing held by or for him shall find any hotel
or motel owner, operator, licensee has wilfully evaded the responsibility to
collect the tax imposed by this section
3-1-7, he may suspend or revoke all village licenses held by such tax evader.
Said person shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held
not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and place thereof,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Any suspension or
conviction resulting from such hearing shall not relieve or discharge any civil
liability for nonpayment of the tax due.
   B.   Interest And Penalties: In the event of the failure of any hotel or
motel owner, operator or licensee to collect and pay to the village the tax
required hereunder within thirty (30) days after the same shall be due,
interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month. In addition, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax and
interest due shall be assessed and collected against any hotel or motel owner,
operator or licensee who shall fail to collect and remit the tax imposed by
this section
3-1-7. (Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-7-6: DISPOSITION OF TAX MONIES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this section
3-1-7, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the treasury and
shall be credited to and deposited in the general fund or any other funds
designated by the village board. (Ord. 09-10-22, 10-20-2009)
3-1-7-7: EXEMPTION:
The tax imposed under this section
3-1-7 shall not apply to the renting, leasing or letting of accommodation in a
hotel or motel to permanent residents. For the purposes of this section:
"permanent resident" means any person who occupies or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms in the hotel or motel for at least thirty (30) consecutive
days. If a hotel or motel provides accommodations for both permanent residents
and other guests, the rental obtained from permanent residents shall not be
included in a computation of the tax due. (Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing enforcement of any provision
of this section
3-1-7 upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such offense and each day of continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 99-9-24, 9-21-1999)
3-1-8: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE; PEG ACCESS FEE:
3-1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section
3-1-8, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended.
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village's jurisdiction, subject to the following clarifications:
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by section 21-801(b) of the act.
   B.   Gross revenues shall not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to section 21-801(c)(1)(vi) of the act;
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable or video service, including,
without limitation, revenue received from telecommunications services,
information services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising,
including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic
publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service
or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and records and
records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules,
regulations, standards, or orders;
      4.   The sale of cable service or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village's jurisdiction and pay the fee permitted
by section 21-801(b) of the act with respect to the service;
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction of the village, state, federal or any other governmental
entity and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and
required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers;
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by section 21-801(b) of the act which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization from the commission,
pursuant to section 21-401 of the act, to offer or provide cable or video
service.
INCUMBENT CABLE OPERATOR: A "cable operator" as such term is defined in 47 USC
522(5), as amended, that provides cable service under a franchise agreement
with the village under section
11-42-11 of the Illinois municipal code.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The fee that a holder shall be liable to pay to the
village or the entity designated by the village to manage public, education and
government access, upon request as support for public, education, and
government access, as authorized under section 21-801(d) of the act and
implemented by the village under section
3-1-8-3 of this chapter.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easements dedicated for
compatible uses.
SERVICE: The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and the
interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to section 21-401 of the act.
SERVICE PROVIDER: A person or entity that provides cable service or video
service.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The fee that a holder shall be liable to pay to the
village for offering cable or video service on a commercial basis in the
village's jurisdiction, as authorized under section 21-801(b) of the act and
implemented by the village under section
3-1-8-2 of this chapter.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: As defined in 47 USC 522(20).
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
rights of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC 332(d), as
amended, or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service
that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet.
VILLAGE: The village of Riverwoods. (Ord. 08-2-1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-8-2: PAYMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDER FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   A service provider fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   The service provider fee shall be five percent (5%) of the holder's
gross revenues.
   C.   Any holder shall notify the village at least ten (10) days prior to the
date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video service in the
village.
   D.   The holder shall be liable for and pay the service provider fee to the
village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of
the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of the ordinance
adopting this section by the holder. The ordinance adopting this section shall
be sent to the holder in the manner required by the act.
   E.   The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a quarterly
basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   F.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village pursuant to which a fee is paid.
   G.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to section 21-301(c) of the act, with credit for prepaid
franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such credit from
the fees that operator owes pursuant to this section. (Ord. 08-2-1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-8-3: PAYMENT OF PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing
cable service or video service in the village.
   B.   The PEG access support fee shall be one percent (1%) of gross revenues,
unless cable operators pay a higher percentage of gross revenues to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village's jurisdiction, in which
case the PEG access support fee shall be such higher percentage.
   C.   The PEG access support fee shall be due on a quarterly basis and paid
forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of fees. If
mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   D.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to section 21-301(c) of the act, shall pay, at the time they
would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that would have been
due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been terminated
pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable operator
pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees that that
operator owes pursuant to this section. (Ord. 08-2-1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-8-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this section
3-1-8 shall be construed to exempt a holder from any tax that is or may later
be imposed by the village, including any tax that is or may later be required
to be paid by or through the holder with respect to cable service or video
service. A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village's simplified municipal
telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any telephone service
provided by the holder. A state issued authorization shall not affect any
requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local unit of
government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 08-2-1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-8-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   The village will notify the holder of the requirements it imposes on
other cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its
books and records. The holder shall comply with the same requirements the
village imposes on other cable service or video service providers in its
jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute any
amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the village. If all
local franchises between the village and incumbent cable operators terminate,
the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village pursuant to the
local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes
45/1 et seq., as amended. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed
as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Any additional amount due after an audit shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for the sum. (Ord. 08-2-
1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-8-6: PENALTIES:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 08-2-
1, 2-5-2008)
3-1-9: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE CONSUMER PROTECTION STANDARDS:
3-1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
3-1-9 is to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of
Riverwoods by requiring cable and video service providers to protect the rights
of their customers. (Ord. 08-2-2, 2-5-2008)
3-1-9-2: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   The regulations of section 70-501 of the act are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services
within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection law that
becomes effective after the effective date of this section shall be
incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the village's boundaries. However, any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without formal action
by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 08-2-2, 2-5-2008)
3-1-9-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 08-2-2, 2-5-2008)
3-1-9-4: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to section 70-501(r)(1) of the act, does hereby provide
for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable and video
customer protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the cable and video customer protection law. The monetary
penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and
shall not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence
of a material breach per customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the cable and video protection law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the cable and video protection law and allow
such provider at least thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to
remedy the specified material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 08-2-2, 2-5-2008)
3-1-9-5: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of section 70-501(s)
of the act, and shall be applied on the statement issued to the customer for
the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of
the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord.
08-2-2, 2-5-2008)
3-1-10: CABLE SYSTEM:
3-1-10-1: TITLE; PURPOSES:
This section
3-1-10 shall be known and cited as the RIVERWOODS CABLE SYSTEM ORDINANCE.
References in this section to "this ordinance" shall be interpreted as
referring to this section
3-1-10. The purposes of this section
3-1-10 are to:
   A.   Regulate the franchising and operation of a cable system by a grantee.
   B.   Protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   Provide for the granting of one or more franchises to permit the use of
village streets and other public ways for cable systems.
   D.   Provide for the regulation by the village of the erection,
construction, reconstruction, installation, operation, maintenance,
dismantling, testing, repair and use of cable systems in, upon, along, across,
above, over and under or in any manner connected with the streets or other
public ways within the village, as it now or in the future may exist.
   E.   Provide for the payment of fees and other valuable considerations to
the village for the use of village streets and other public ways by such
systems as well as to compensate the village for costs associated with such
use.
   F.   Provide for the development, operation and maintenance of cable systems
to serve the present and future needs of the citizens, government and private
and public institutions, organizations and enterprises of the village and
surrounding communities.
   G.   Provide remedies and prescribe penalties for violations of this section
3-1-10. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-2: AUTHORITY; CONFLICT:
   A.   This section
3-1-10 is adopted by the village as an exercise of its home rule powers under
the Illinois constitution of 1970, and by the authority granted by Illinois
statutes, including, but not limited to, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-
11, the cable and video customer protection law 1
and by federal law, including the cable communications policy act of 1984, as
amended from time to time, 47 USC section 521 et seq., the telecommunications
act of 1996, and any other federal law hereinafter adopted which regulates the
cable television industry, all as the same may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Where any provision of this section
3-1-10 conflicts with any provision of Illinois or federal law, this section
3-1-10 shall be superseded but only to the extent necessary to resolve the
conflict. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-1-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section
3-1-10, the following terms, phrases and words and their abbreviations and
derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the "cable act" (as
defined below), unless otherwise defined herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words used
in the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the
singular number include the plural number.
BOARD: The village board of trustees of the village or any future body
constituting the legislative body of the village.
CABLE ACT: Cable communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable
television consumer protection and competition act of 1992, and the
telecommunications act of 1996 (47 USC 521 et seq.).
CABLE AND VIDEO COMPETITION LAW: The cable and video competition law of 2007 1
.
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW: The cable and video customer
protection law 2
.
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended.
CABLE SYSTEM: As defined in 47 USC 522(7), as amended.
CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television
channel as a television channel is defined by the federal communications
commission by regulation.
CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control or ownership of a cable system in
whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or entity (except underwriters during the period
in which they are offering securities to the public) of fifty one percent (51%)
or more of a cable system or the franchise under which the system is operated.
A change in the control or controlling interest of an entity which has control
or a controlling interest in a grantee parent shall constitute a change in the
control or controlling interest of the cable system under the same criteria.
Control or controlling interest as used herein may be held simultaneously by
more than one person or entity.
ENTITY: A corporation, joint venture, association, partnership, limited
liability company or group of persons acting in concert.
FRANCHISE: An authorization granted by ordinance adopted by the village, or
renewal thereof, to construct and operate a cable system.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: The agreement entered into between the village and a
grantee, and any amendments or modifications thereto.
FRANCHISE AREA: The area within the boundaries of the village where the cable
system shall be constructed and operated as agreed to in a franchise agreement.
GRANTEE: An entity to which a franchise is granted or lawfully transferred.
GROSS REVENUES: The cable service revenue derived by the grantee from the
operation of the cable system in the franchise area to provide cable services,
calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Cable
service revenue includes monthly basic, premium and pay per view video fees,
advertising and home shopping revenue, installation fees and equipment rental
fees. Gross revenues shall also include such other revenue sources from the
provision of cable service as may now exist or hereafter develop from or in
connection with the operation of the cable system within the village, provided
that such revenues, fees, receipts, or charges may lawfully be included in the
gross revenue base for purposes of computing the village's permissible
franchise fee under the cable act, as amended. Gross revenue shall not include
refundable deposits, bad debt, investment income, programming launch support
payments, advertising sales commissions, nor any taxes, fees or assessments
imposed or assessed by any governmental authority.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received a state issued authorization from
the Illinois commerce commission pursuant to section 21-401 of the cable and
video competition law.
PUBLIC WAYS: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, including
utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority to
authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any real or
personal village property that is not specifically described in the previous
two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right of way.
ROW ORDINANCE: The provisions generally applicable to utilities occupying
public ways in the village pursuant to title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity lawfully receiving for any purpose the cable
services of a grantee herein.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: As defined in 47 USC 522(20), as amended.
VILLAGE: The village of Riverwoods, Illinois, or the lawful successor,
transferee, designee, or assignee thereof. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-1-10-4: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   No person seeking to provide cable service within the village pursuant
to this section
3-1-10 shall use the public ways for the installation or construction of
facilities for the provision of cable service until it has obtained a
franchise. The village shall have authority to grant a nonexclusive franchise
for a term of up to fifteen (15) years. The village may grant a franchise for a
shorter term if the board deems it in the best interest of the village to do
so. The grant of a franchise shall include the following:
      1.   A grant of authority to provide cable service in all of the
franchise area, subject to the cable act, laws of Illinois, and the village's
generally applicable ordinances, rules and regulations.
      2.   A grant of authority to use, occupy and construct facilities in the
public ways for the delivery of cable service, subject to the laws of Illinois,
and the village's ordinances, rules and regulations; provided, however, that a
franchise granted under this section
3-1-10 shall be deemed to confer only such rights to use public ways or other
property in the village as the village may have the right and power to grant in
a franchise agreement, without obligating the village in any manner to
undertake any action to acquire such right and power, including through the use
of eminent domain or by a suit for declaratory relief, and without obligating
the village to incur any costs or expenses to secure such rights to use public
ways.
      3.   A statement that the grant of authority is subject to the lawful
operation of the cable service by the grantee, its affiliated entities or its
successors in interest.
   B.   When the person or entity seeking to become a grantee applies to the
village for a franchise, the village board may require such person or entity to
make such submissions as the village board may request, and the village board
may be guided in such requests by considering the submissions that would be
made to the Illinois commerce commission to receive a state issued
authorization pursuant to section 21-401 of the cable and video competition
law. No provision of this section
3-1-10 shall be deemed or construed to require the village to grant a
franchise. A franchise granted under this section
3-1-10 shall not take the place of any other license or permit legally required
of a grantee. With respect to any private street, nothing contained in this
section
3-1-10 shall waive the obligation of any grantee to secure from such owner(s)
of such private street all necessary approvals and consents required by law to
permit the construction, installation and operation of the cable system within
such private street.
   C.   To grant a franchise, the board shall adopt an ordinance identifying
the grantee and approving the form of franchise agreement to be executed by
such grantee and the village.
   D.   The board shall have the authority to grant more than one franchise
under this section
3-1-10. An additional franchise may but is not required to be granted under the
same terms or substantially equivalent terms and conditions as those of the
existing franchise; provided, however, that before the village shall grant an
additional franchise, including granting an additional franchise under
different terms and conditions of any existing franchise, the village shall
comply with the procedures set forth in subsection (e) of section
11-42-11 of the Illinois municipal code 1
, as amended.
   E.   Franchises shall allow the grantee to install, construct, operate,
maintain, and remove its cable system within public ways and provide the
grantee with open, comparable, nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral
access to the public ways on the same terms generally applicable to utilities
occupying public ways in the village in accordance with the ROW ordinance.
(Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-11(e).
3-1-10-5: REPRESENTATIONS IN A FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
The village may require that each franchise agreement contain substantially the
following representations and agreements, namely that the grantee:
   A.   Will comply with this section
3-1-10, its franchise agreement made pursuant to this section
3-1-10, and all applicable village, county, state and federal regulations in
regard to the construction, operation and maintenance of its cable system.
   B.   Accepts the franchise relying on its own investigation and
understanding of the power and authority of the village to grant the franchise
and the terms and conditions thereof.
   C.   Acknowledges that it has not been induced to enter into the franchise
by any understanding or promise or by other statement, whether written or
verbal, by or on behalf of the village or by any other third person concerning
any term or condition of the franchise or this section
3-1-10 not expressed herein.
   D.   Agrees that the franchise granted to such grantee and its franchise
agreement with the village shall be binding upon the particular grantee and all
successors, lessees and assigns, as may be approved by the village. The
foregoing shall not be construed to permit any change of controlling interest,
lease or assignment except those made in compliance with the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-6: CONDITIONS FOR USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   A person seeking an initial franchise from the village shall provide a
schedule for the construction of the cable system and the provision of cable
service throughout the village, which schedule shall be incorporated by
references into the franchise and be enforceable against the grantee.
   B.   Prior to the commencement of the initial build out of a cable system, a
grantee shall prepare and submit to the village, for the village's review and
approval in its sole judgment and discretion, strand maps clearly depicting the
exact location of each and every pedestal to be used in the franchise area.
Such grantee shall construct and complete the cable system in strict accordance
with the maps as approved by the village. In such case or whenever major
upgrades are proposed to the cable system, the proposed installation and
facilities shall use the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures,
power pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless
of location, for the particular application.
   C.   In making use of the public ways, including without limitation,
performing any tree trimming in conjunction therewith, the grantee shall comply
with all pertinent provisions of the ROW ordinance.
   D.   No provision in this section
3-1-10 or any franchise agreement shall: 1) abrogate the right of the village
to perform any public works or public improvements of any description, 2) be
construed as a waiver of any codes or ordinances of general applicability
promulgated by the village, or 3) be construed as a waiver or release of the
rights of the village in and to the public ways.
   E.   At the request of a private property owner, the grantee shall relocate
its facilities and be entitled to reimbursement of its relocation expenses by
such private owner.
   F.   A grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the village, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit
the moving of buildings. The expenses of such temporary raising or lowering of
the wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee may
require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given at least forty
eight (48) hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-7: GENERAL SERVICE OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to its franchise, a grantee shall offer cable service at equal
rates, and on an equal basis with regards to deposits and service packages, to
all residential subscribers; provided, however, a grantee may discontinue or
refuse cable service to subscribers and potential subscribers who have not paid
applicable charges.
   B.   Unless prohibited by applicable law or regulation, a grantee shall
agree in the franchise agreement to provide a free service line drop and free
basic service to all current and future public buildings in the franchise area,
including, but not limited to, village hall, fire stations, police station,
public works or other facilities as may be specified in the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-8: PUBLIC, EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENT ACCESS:
   A.   A grantee shall provide capacity for the village's noncommercial
public, educational and governmental ("PEG") programming through one channel on
the grantee's cable system. A grantee may offer such PEG programming on its
basic digital tier of service and such programming shall be provided consistent
with section 611 of the cable act, as amended from time to time.
   B.   A grantee shall comply with applicable requirements of section 21-601
(d) of the cable and video service competition law for the purpose of
facilitating public, educational and governmental programming.
   C.   A franchise agreement may provide that, if the village elects to
provide equipment or capital improvements for PEG access use from schools or
village facilities, then the following procedures shall apply. At such time
that the village determines that it wants to establish capacity to allow
subscribers to receive PEG access programming originated from schools or
village facilities, or at such time that the village determines that it wants
to change or upgrade a location from which PEG access programming is
originated, the village will give the grantee written notice detailing the
point of origination and the capability sought by the village. Within a
reasonable period of time the grantee and the village shall mutually develop a
plan and cost estimate to implement the changes desired by the village. The
grantee shall review the equipment and capital improvements specified in such
plan to assure the proper connectivity to grantee's facilities and operation of
the PEG channel for its intended purposes. Provided the village has authorized
the expenditures necessary to pay for the implementation of the plan, the
village may then give notice to the grantee directing the grantee to impose
monthly PEG fees on the grantee's cable system customers within thirty (30)
days after receipt of the village's notice. The village shall determine the
monthly PEG fees in consultation with the grantee to assure an adequate
amortization of the PEG system costs over the appropriate period of time,
taking into account any contribution made by the grantee. If the grantee will
implement any necessary system changes on account of such programming, the
village shall enter into an agreement with the grantee to provide for such work
and the reimbursement of the grantee for its expenditures. Such agreement may
also provide for the grantee to be reimbursed from PEG fees, but otherwise the
grantee shall remit collected PEG fees to the village with each monthly payment
of franchise fees. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-9: EMERGENCY ALERT OVERRIDE SYSTEM:
A grantee shall comply with all applicable requirements of the federal
communications commission involving the distribution and notification of
federal, state, and local emergency messages over the emergency alert system
applicable to cable operators. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-10: TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE; DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM:
   A.   A grantee shall comply with all applicable technical standards of the
FCC as published in 47 CFR, part 76, subpart K; provided, that the village
reserves the right to adopt and enforce technical standards to the extent
allowed by federal law. If such village authority is expanded during the
duration of a franchise granted under this section
3-1-10, the village may choose to exercise its authority at its own discretion.
   B.   On or about the anniversary of the effective date of a franchise, the
village may schedule a public meeting or meetings with the grantee to review
the franchise performance, plans and prospects. At any time during the term of
the franchise, the village may require the grantee to make available specified
information to determine if the grantee is supplying a level and variety of
services equivalent to those being generally offered in comparable markets, and
to evaluate the franchisee's performance under the franchise agreement.
   C.   A grantee, upon request of the village, shall provide the village with
information describing the location of its cable service facilities and
equipment located in the village's public ways and regarding technical
characteristics, channel capacity, and channel carriage. A grantee shall
provide the village with an updated description, upon request or whenever
substantial changes in the cable system are made. If any such information is
designated by the grantee as confidential, such information provided pursuant
to this subsection shall be exempt from inspection and copying under the
Illinois freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et
seq., pursuant to exemption provided for under 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/7(1)(mm) and any other present or future exemptions applicable to such
information and shall not be disclosed by the village to any third party
without the written consent of the grantee. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-11: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS:
Grantees shall comply with the customer service and protection provisions of
section 22-501 of the cable and video customer protection law, which provisions
are incorporated by reference in this section
3-1-10-11. Subject to the preceding, a grantee may promulgate such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as
shall be reasonably necessary to enable the grantee to exercise its rights and
perform its obligations under the franchise and to assure uninterrupted service
to all its subscribers. However, such rules, regulations, terms and conditions
shall not be in conflict with the provisions of this section
3-1-10, or applicable federal or state law or regulation. A grantee shall
provide annually, without the need for a request from the village, its annual
public report that includes performance data, disaggregated for the village and
containing the information set forth in section 22-501(g) of the cable and
video customer protection law. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-12: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   As compensation for permission to use the streets and public ways of
the village for the construction, operation, maintenance, modification, and
reconstruction of a cable system, and for the village's costs in establishing a
regulatory program for a grantee, a grantee shall pay to the village an annual
amount equal to five percent (5%) of such grantee's annual gross revenues.
   B.   If at any time during the duration of a franchise agreement, the
village is authorized to collect an amount in excess of five percent (5%) of
the grantee's gross revenues, then the village may unilaterally amend the
franchise agreement by ordinance following a public hearing on the matter,
provided such amendment is competitively neutral. Such ordinance shall provide
that such excess amount shall be added to the franchise fee payments to be paid
by the grantee to the village. The revised franchise payment shall not take
effect until at least ninety (90) days prior to the written notice from the
village to the grantee of the ordinance implementing the increase in the amount
of the franchise fee.
   C.   The franchise fee shall be paid at the office of the village clerk of
the village on a calendar quarterly basis and paid within forty five (45) days
after the close of the calendar quarter. Each payment made by a grantee shall
be accompanied by a statement, explaining the basis for the calculation of the
fee. If mailed, the fee shall be considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
   D.   In the event that any franchise payment is not made on or before the
dates specified herein, the grantee shall pay an interest charge, computed from
such due date, at the default rate specified in the franchise agreement. (Ord.
09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-13: AUDIT RIGHTS:
   A.   A grantee shall maintain books of accounts and records adequate to
enable the grantee to demonstrate that it is in compliance with the obligation
to pay the franchise fees required of grantee in this section
3-1-10 and its franchise agreement. A grantee shall not be required to maintain
books and records for compliance purposes under this section
3-1-10 for a period longer than four (4) years. Upon reasonable prior written
notice, during normal business hours at a grantee's business office located in
the Chicago metropolitan area, the village shall have the right to inspect or
cause an audit to be made of a grantee's relevant books and records for the
purpose of verifying the correct amount of any payment required to be made by a
grantee under this section
3-1-10.
   B.   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, in the event of a
discrepancy between the franchise fee paid and the amount of the verified audit
of the grantee's books and records, the grantee shall pay to the village the
amount of the underpayment within thirty (30) days of the verification of the
discrepancy, plus an interest charge on the deficiency at the rate set forth in
the franchise agreement. No acceptance of any payment by the grantee to the
village shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any
claim the village may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee or for the performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
   C.   A grantee shall not be required to disclose information that it
reasonably deems to be confidential or proprietary, nor disclose any of its or
an affiliate's books and records not directly related to such grantee's
compliance with its obligations under this section
3-1-10. The village agrees to treat any information disclosed by a grantee and
clearly marked by such grantee as confidential or proprietary in a manner that
protects such confidential and proprietary information and to limit disclosure,
to the extent permitted by law, to employees, representatives and agents of the
village that have a need to know in order to enforce this section
3-1-10. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-14: INDEMNITY; INSURANCE:
A grantee and its agents and subcontractors shall comply with and be subject to
the provisions of the ROW ordinance. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-15: SECURITY FUND:
A grantee shall establish a security fund in a form and in an amount that
complies with the ROW ordinance to secure the faithful performance by such
grantee of its obligations under the ROW ordinance, which are hereby
incorporated in this section
3-1-10 and its franchise agreement, with respect to timely payment of amounts
due the village for the cost of any restoration work the village must perform
itself as a consequence of grantee's failure to so perform. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-
2009)
3-1-10-16: SECURITY FUND; REMEDY OF GRANTEE VIOLATION:
   A.   A grantee may be required to provide a security fund if specified in
its franchise agreement. The security fund shall be deposited with a financial
institution approved by the village, in an account solely under the control of
the village. Once established, the grantee at all times shall thereafter
maintain the security fund in such amount. The village shall have the sole
right to make withdrawals from the security fund. The grantee shall have no
right to make withdrawals from the security fund except for withdrawals of
accrued interest. Interest earned on the security fund, which may be paid to
the grantee semiannually upon ten (10) days' prior written notice to the
village, provided the grantee is not at the time of payment in violation of
this section
3-1-10 or the grantee's franchise agreement.
   B.   The purposes of a security fund shall be to serve as security for: 1)
the faithful performance by the grantee of all terms and conditions of this
section
3-1-10 and its franchise, 2) any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the
village and occasioned by such grantee's failure to comply with all the rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the village issued
pursuant to this section
3-1-10 or the grantee's franchise agreement, 3) the payment by such grantee of
all fees, liens and taxes owed to the village and all damage, claims, costs or
expenses, which the village has paid or incurred by reason of any act or
omission of such grantee or in enforcing the provisions of this section
3-1-10 or the grantee's franchise agreement, and all other payments due the
village from such grantee, 4) all costs and expenses of construction or
restoration work performed by the village as a consequence of such grantee's
failure to perform its construction and restoration obligations pursuant to
this section
3-1-10 or the grantee's franchise agreement, and 5) payment of any liquidated
damages due to the village from such grantee.
   C.   Franchise agreements may provide that in the event that the village
should draw from this security fund, the grantee shall restore the value of
said security fund to the total amount provided in the franchise agreement
within the time period therein specified, and if the grantee shall fail to
restore the security fund to its original amount within such time period, after
notice from the village of the date and amount which has been withdrawn from
the security fund, such failure shall constitute a material breach of this
section
3-1-10 and of the grantee's franchise agreement.
   D.   In the event of any material breach by a grantee of any provision of
the franchise, the village may exercise all rights and remedies provided in the
franchise agreement. Such rights and remedies may include the imposition of a
fine upon the grantee in an amount which may be withdrawn from the security
fund.
   E.   Upon termination of the franchise, other than a revocation, the
particular grantee shall be entitled to a return of the security fund
established by such grantee or such portion thereof as remains on deposit at
termination, after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate the
village for any uncured failure by such grantee to comply with any provision of
this section
3-1-10 or the grantee's franchise agreement. In the event of any termination of
a grantee's franchise by the village, the security fund and all accrued
interest thereon shall be released to the village to cover any costs and
expenses, loss or damage incurred or to be incurred by the village as a result
of such termination, provided that if any portion of the security fund and
accrued interest shall remain after payment thereof, the excess shall be
refunded to the grantee.
   F.   Upon the occurrence of any event that may lead to the foreclosure,
condemnation or receivership of any part of the cable system, the grantee shall
immediately provide written notification to the village. Such notification
shall be notice of cause for revocation of the franchise, and the village may
revoke the franchise under procedures set forth in this section
3-1-10.
   G.   The grantee shall not be relieved of any obligation by reason of any
failure of the village to enforce prompt compliance with any provision of this
section
3-1-10, a franchise or a franchise agreement.
   H.   All rights and remedies given to the village under this section
3-1-10 or a grantee's franchise agreement, shall be in addition to and
cumulative with each other and with any and all other rights or remedies,
existing or implied, now or hereafter available to the village, at law or in
equity, and such rights and remedies shall not be exclusive, but each and every
right and remedy specifically provided or otherwise existing or given may be
exercised from time to time and as often and in such order as may be deemed
expedient by the village in its sole judgment and discretion, and the exercise
of one or more rights or remedies shall not be deemed a waiver of the right to
exercise at the same time or thereafter any other right or remedy nor shall any
such delay or omission be construed to be a waiver of or acquiescence to any
default. The exercise of any such right or remedy by the village shall not
release the grantee from its obligations or any liability under this section
3-1-10, a franchise or a franchise agreement. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-17: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Controlling interest in a cable system shall not be sold, assigned or
transferred in any manner, nor shall the title, either legal or equitable,
relating to a system pass to or vest in any person or entity without the
written permission of the board, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The foregoing restriction does not apply to the granting of a
security or mortgage interest in the grantee's assets by the grantee to a
financing institution for the purpose of financing the construction,
maintenance or operation of the cable system. No consent shall be required,
however, for: 1) a transfer in trust, by mortgage, hypothecation, or by
assignment of any rights, title, or interest of a grantee in the franchise or
its cable system in order to secure indebtedness, or 2) a transfer to an entity
directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such grantee.
   B.   A person or entity wishing to transfer control of or a controlling
interest in a cable system shall make a written request to the board for such
approval. Upon receipt of any such request, the village may require the grantee
or any other party involved in the transfer to provide such information as is
necessary to evaluate the transfer.
   C.   Consistent with applicable law, a franchise agreement may authorize the
village to approve the transfer, deny the transfer with cause, or conditionally
approve the transfer, provided that the village shall not unreasonably refuse
to approve the transfer or condition the transfer upon unreasonable conditions.
The conditions the village may attach to the transfer approval may include (if
consistent with applicable law), but are not limited to: reimbursement for
reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in evaluating the transfer request;
remedy of existing or historical violations of village ordinances or the
franchise agreement; and payment of all fees and penalties owed by the grantee
at the time of transfer approval.
   D.   When the village approves a transfer under this section
3-1-10, the new grantee shall file all necessary bonds, funds, proofs of
insurance and certifications as required by the franchise agreement. (Ord. 09-
4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-18: FRANCHISE RENEWAL; AMENDMENT:
   A.   Section 626 of the cable act (47 USC section 546), as amended from time
to time, or any successor provision, shall govern the procedures and standards
for renewal of any franchise awarded pursuant to this section
3-1-10.
   B.   The village board may amend this section
3-1-10 or a grantee's franchise agreement whenever necessary to allow grantee
to take advantage of any developments in the field of transmission of
communication signals which will afford it an opportunity to more effectively,
efficiently or economically serve its customers; provided however that this
subsection shall not be construed to require the village to make any such
amendment; provided further that, except as consistent with applicable law and
regulation, no amendment to this section
3-1-10 shall supersede any provision of a franchise agreement during the then
unexpired term of such franchise agreement. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-19: REVOCATION AND EXPIRATION:
   A.   If the village believes that a grantee has not complied with the
material terms of its franchise, it shall notify the grantee in writing with
specific details regarding the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance or
default.
   B.   The grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of the
village's written notice: 1) to respond to the village, contesting the
assertion of noncompliance or default; or 2) to cure such default; or 3) in the
event that, by nature of the default, such default cannot be cured within the
thirty (30) day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and
notify the village of the steps being taken and the projected date that the
cure will be completed and request additional time from the village to complete
the cure.
   C.   Subject to applicable federal and state law, in the event the village
determines that the grantee is in default of any material provision of its
franchise, the village may:
      1.   Seek specific performance of any provision that reasonably lends
itself to such remedy as an alternative to damages, or seek other relief
available at law including declaratory or injunctive relief; or
      2.   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
   D.   The village shall give written notice to the grantee of its intent to
revoke the franchise on the basis of a pattern of noncompliance by the grantee,
including two (2) or more instances of substantial noncompliance with a
material provision of the franchise. The notice shall set forth with
specificity the exact nature of the noncompliance. The grantee shall have
ninety (90) days from the receipt of such notice to object in writing and to
state its reasons for such objection. If the village has not received a
response from the grantee or upon receipt of the response does not agree with
the grantee's proposed remedy, it may then seek termination of the franchise at
a public hearing to be conducted by the village board. The village shall cause
to be served upon the grantee, at least ten (10) days prior to such public
hearing, a written notice specifying the time and place of such hearing and
stating its intent to request termination of the franchise. At the designated
hearing, the village shall give the grantee an opportunity to state its
position on the matter, present evidence and question witnesses, after which it
shall determine whether or not the franchise shall be terminated. The public
hearing shall be on the record and an audio/video recording shall be made. A
copy of the recording shall be made available to the grantee within ten (10)
business days. The grantee may, at its own expense, arrange for a written
transcript of the public hearing. The decision of the village shall be in
writing and shall be delivered to the grantee as required for notices under the
franchise agreement. The grantee may appeal such determination to an
appropriate court within thirty (30) days of receipt of the village's decision.
   E.   Any transfer of control resulting from or after the appointment of a
receiver or receivers or trustee or trustees, however denominated, designated
to take over and conduct the business of the grantee, whether in a
receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless
such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of a one hundred twenty (120) day period, shall be treated as a
transfer of control pursuant to 47 USC section 537 and require the village's
consent thereto in the manner described in section
3-1-10-17 of this chapter.
   F.   In the event that a franchise has been revoked or has not been renewed,
the village shall have the option to acquire the particular grantee's cable
system or effect a transfer of ownership of such system to another person,
subject to the provisions of section 627 of the cable act. Such an option must
be exercised within ninety (90) days from the date of the revocation or
expiration of the franchise, the entry of a final judgment by a court reviewing
the question of the revocation or expiration, or the entry of a final order
upon appeal of the same, whichever is later.
   G.   Should a franchise be revoked or expire and there is no judicial or
administrative review of the revocation or expiration taking place, and the
village does not acquire or effect a transfer of ownership of the grantee's
cable system, then the grantee shall comply within the time limit established
in the ROW ordinance for removal or abandonment of its facilities in public
ways and the performance of any related cleanup and restoration. In removing
its plant, structures and equipment, a grantee shall refill, at its own
expense, any excavation that has been made by it and shall leave all public
ways and places in as good condition as prevailed prior to such grantee's
removal of its equipment and appliances, without affecting the electrical or
telephone cable wires or attachments of other cable and video providers. The
village shall inspect and approve the condition of the public ways and places,
and cables, wires, attachments and poles after removal. A grantee's liability,
including for indemnities, insurance and the security fund (unless forfeited as
provided in this section
3-1-10), if provided for the franchise agreement, shall continue in full force
and effect during the period of removal and until all restoration is completed
as provided in this subsection. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-20: VILLAGE RIGHTS:
Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provision of this section
3-1-10 shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental
rights or powers of the village, except as such rights or powers are expressly
preempted by applicable law or regulation. Without limiting the foregoing:
   A.   If any amendments to the cable act or other applicable law or
regulations are enacted, the village may amend this section
3-1-10 to incorporate such amendments. If any amendments to the cable act or
other applicable law or regulations are enacted which allow the village to
exercise powers which it does not presently exercise with respect to cable
systems, the village reserves the right to exercise those powers as provided by
then applicable law; and
   B.   Whenever, in case of fire or other disaster, it becomes necessary in
the judgment of the village or the village engineer or any other duly
authorized village official or employee, to remove or damage any of a grantee's
facilities, no charge shall be made by such grantee against the village, or
such officials or employees, for restoration and repair, unless such acts
amount to gross negligence by the village. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-10-21: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, without the expressed
consent of the grantee, to make or possess, or to assist in making or
possessing, any connection, extension, or division, whether physically,
acoustically, inductively, electronically or otherwise, with or to any segment
of the cable system.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person, group, company, corporation
or governmental body or agency to wilfully tamper, remove, obstruct or damage,
or assist thereof, any part or segment of a cable system for any purpose
whatsoever.
   C.   Any firm, person, group, company, corporation or governmental body or
agency found guilty of violating this section
3-1-10 may be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and the
costs of the action or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and the
costs of the action for each and every subsequent offense. Each continuing day
of the violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-
2009)
3-1-10-22: SEVERABILITY:
Should any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or portion of this section
3-1-10 or a franchise be declared to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this section
3-1-10 or the franchise as a whole, but shall only affect the portion thereof
declared to be invalid; and the board hereby expressly states and declares that
it would nonetheless have adopted this section
3-1-10 or granted the franchise had it known that any such word, phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph or portion of this section
3-1-10 and/or franchise were invalid. (Ord. 09-4-5, 4-7-2009)
3-1-11: MUNICIPAL RETAIL MOTOR FUEL TAX:
3-1-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this section shall be known as the Riverwoods Retail Motor
Fuel Tax. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
this subsection:
 
            Every person engaged in the business of the retail sale of motor
DEALER:     fuel, including any person who has an established place of business
            for such purposes ascribed to them in this chapter.
            All volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended, or
MOTOR FUEL: compounded for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable
            for, operating internal combustion engines, including compressed
            natural gas.
            Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
            assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, co-partnership,
            joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign
            corporation, association, syndicate, society or any group of
PERSON:     individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
            fraternal nonprofit, or otherwise; whenever the term "person" is
            used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as
            applied to associations shall mean that the owners or part owners
            thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
RETAIL:     The sale for any good and valuable consideration to a person for
            use as a consumer.
VILLAGE:    Village of Riverwoods. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
 
3-1-11-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Beginning on January 1, 2021, there is hereby imposed and shall immediately
accrue and be collected a tax upon the privilege of purchasing motor fuel at
retail in the village at a rate of two cents ($0.02) per U.S. gallon or
fraction thereof. In the event motor fuel is dispensed by a unit of measure
other than U.S. gallon, then the tax shall be imposed at the same ratio of two
cents ($0.02) per U.S. gallon to the unit of measure. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-
2020)
3-1-11-4: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the Riverwoods Retail
Motor Fuel Tax shall be borne by the retail purchaser. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to impose the tax upon the occupation of selling motor fuel.
It shall be a violation of this section for any retail dealer to fail to add
this tax to the retail price of motor fuel or to absorb the tax. The tax shall
be in addition to any and all other taxes. It shall be the duty of every dealer
to secure said tax under rules and regulations prescribed by the village and as
otherwise provided by this section. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Every dealer required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall secure
said tax from the retail purchaser at the time the dealer collects payment for
the motor fuel. The tax shall be paid by the retail purchaser to the person
required to collect it as trustee for and on account of the village. (Ord. 20-
08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-6: FILING OF RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX:
Not later than the twentieth day of the month, the dealer shall transmit a
report of sale of motor fuel in the previous month to the village on such forms
and in such manner as prescribed by the village. Such report shall be
accompanied by payment to the village of all taxes imposed by this section
which are due and owing for the period covered in the report. The report shall
be accompanied by such supplemental information as the village may require to
verify the report, including the Illinois Department of Revenue Sales and Use
Tax Return (ST-1) for such dealer. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The village may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this section concerning the enforcement and application of this
chapter. The term "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited to, a
case by case determination whether or not the tax imposed by this section
applies to a dealer or transaction. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-8: FAILURE TO FILE RETURN OR PAY TAX WHEN DUE:
If for any reason any tax return is not filed when due or if any tax imposed by
this article is not paid over to the Village when due, a late payment penalty
equal to five percent (5%) of the unpaid tax is added for each month or any
portion thereof, that such tax remains unpaid and the total of such late
payment penalty shall be paid along with the tax imposed hereby. The Village
may bring an action to collect any unpaid tax or penalty in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-9: REGISTRATION; RECORDS:
   A.   Each dealer within the village shall register with the village within
thirty (30) days after the commencement of such business on forms provided by
the village finance director or designee. Each dealer shall keep books which,
at a minimum, shall include:
      1.   The number of gallons of motor fuel sold at retail each day by the
dealer in the village.
      2.   The actual motor fuel tax collected for each day by the dealer.
   B.   The village finance director or designee shall at all reasonable times
have full access to such records.
   C.   To the extent permitted by law, the financial records of any dealer
submitted pursuant to this section or any rule and regulation promulgated
thereunder shall not be available for public inspection in order to protect the
dealer's right to privacy. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-18-2020)
3-1-11-10: PENALTY:
In addition to any late payment penalty, any dealer violating any provision of
this chapter upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than five hundred
dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each such
offense. Each failure to collect the tax imposed hereby or failure to pay such
tax over to the village or willful violation of any other provisions of this
chapter shall constitute a separate violation thereof. Payment and collection
of the Riverwoods Retail Motor Fuel Tax and any late payment penalty may be
enforced by the village by action in any court of competent jurisdiction, and
failure to collect, account for and pay over said tax and any late payment
penalty shall be cause for suspension or revocation of any village business
license for such dealer applicable to the premises thereof. (Ord. 20-08-14, 8-
18-2020)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License Required; Contents
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: Classification Of Licenses, Number And Fees
3-2-6: Renewal Of License; Change Of Conditions
3-2-7: Persons Not Eligible For License
3-2-8: Responsible Agent On Premises
3-2-9: Conditions Of License
3-2-10: Sales To Minors, Incompetents
3-2-11: Premises Requirements
3-2-12: Complaints
3-2-13: Penalties
3-2-14: Amendments
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in an act
relating to alcoholic liquors of the state of Illinois, approved January 31,
1934, as amended 1
, except:
CLUB: A "country club" as such term is defined in section
9-2-3 of this code. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966; amd. Ord. 15-01-02, 1-6-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.01.
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The president of the village shall be the local liquor control commissioner in
and for the village, and he may appoint a person or persons to assist him in
the exercise of the powers and the performance of his duties as said
commissioner. Such person or persons, together with said local liquor control
commissioner, shall constitute the local liquor control commission. Said local
liquor control commissioner and said local liquor control commission, in
addition to the powers and duties herein given and provided, shall have all the
powers and duties as provided for in the Illinois liquor control act. The local
liquor control commissioner shall file a copy of the appointment of the members
of the local liquor control commission, after approval by the village board, in
the office of the village clerk, within five (5) days after their respective
appointments and approval. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
The local liquor control commissioner is hereby authorized to hire such legal
and other aides and make such expenditures as he deems necessary or desirable
to study and enforce the liquor control ordinance of the village. (Res. 51)
The salary of the local liquor control commissioner shall be ten dollars
($10.00) per year commencing May 1, 1997. (Ord. 96-8-15, 9-17-1996)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; CONTENTS:
No person shall sell at retail or solicit or receive an order for, or keep or
expose for sale, or keep with the intention of selling, any alcoholic liquor
without first obtaining a license therefor, as is hereinafter provided. All
licenses issued by the local liquor control commissioner shall state thereon
the name of the licensee and the address and description of the premises for
which it is granted, and the date of its issuance and expiration. Such license
shall be signed by the local liquor control commissioner, and each licensee
shall cause his license issued under the provisions of this chapter to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such liquor license shall be made to the village president in
writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name
and address of such person;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization;
   C.   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   E.   The quantity of alcoholic goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the
time application is made;
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this ordinance, laws of this state, or the ordinances of the
village;
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor;
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village, in
the conduct of his place of business;
   K.   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of value as
defined under section 4, article 6 of the Illinois liquor control act, nor been
a party in any way to such violations as provided in section 5, article 6 of
said Illinois liquor control act 1
; (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
   L.   If the application is for a private club license, a statement
indicating the number of dues paying members for whom the club is the primary
affiliation at the time of application for issuance or renewal; (Ord. 15-01-02,
1-6-2015)
   M.   At the time of application for license, or renewal, the applicant shall
submit a certification from the Lake County health department that the proposed
licensed premises are in conformity with all the regulations and ordinances of
said department;
   N.   New applicants for a liquor license, or renewal, and managers, if any,
shall be fingerprinted by the sheriff's office of Lake County and a signed
affidavit from the sheriff of Lake County clearing the applicants shall be
filed with the local liquor control commission. All officers of a corporation
making an application for a license shall be fingerprinted;
   O.   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two (2) members of such partnership, firm, association or club, or the
president and secretary of such corporation; (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
   P.   The applicant for an alcoholic beverage license must be actively
involved in the operation of the licensed premises either personally if an
individual; by one partner of a partnership or copartnership; or, if a
corporation or limited liability company, by a designated manager. (Ord. 15-01-
02, 1-6-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
3-2-5: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES, NUMBER AND FEES:
   A.   There shall be classifications of liquor licenses authorized in the
village, designated as follows:
      1.   Class A (Private Club License): The private club license shall
authorize a club to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, during the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M. until twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, Monday through
Thursday, and during the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. until the hour of
one o’clock (1:00) A.M., on Friday, Saturday and the night prior to the major
national holidays as listed below. Alcoholic beverage sale, service, and
consumption shall be authorized within the property lines of the golf course
operated by the club, but excluding all parking lots, sidewalks, and roadways
and any portion of such golf course (other than cart paths) nearer than two
hundred feet (200') to any adjoining residential lot. Outdoor alcoholic
beverage sale and service from carts shall be allowed daily until the closing
hour set forth in this code for outdoor club activities. The major national
holidays referred to herein shall be New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; Independence
Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving; and Christmas Day. The time referred to herein
shall be Central Standard Time except that portion of the year, during which
daylight saving time is generally in effect, and in such case the said time
shall be considered to mean daylight saving time.
      2.   Class B-1 (Park District Golf Course License): The B-1 park district
golf course liquor license shall authorize the Deerfield Park District to sell
alcoholic liquors at retail, Monday through Thursdays during the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M. until twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and during the hours
of eight (8:00) A.M. until twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, Fridays, weekends
and holidays, in buildings of the park district’s golf course located within
the Village; provided, however, that the sale of alcoholic liquors is limited
to and shall be sold in connection with the operation of an established food
serving facility during times when food is dispensed for consumption upon the
premises, all pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-15.
         Class B-2 (Park District Golf Course Operator License): The B-2 park
district golf course operator liquor license shall authorize the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquors at retail under the same time, place and manner
regulations as are applicable to the Deerfield Park District under the B-
1 liquor license. The licensee under the B-2 liquor license must be a
restaurant operator under contract with the Deerfield Park District who is
principally responsible for operating the licensed premises as a bona fide food
serving facility at all times except during special events conducted directly
by the Deerfield Park District.
      3.   Class C (Commercial License): A commercial license shall authorize
the occasional service and/or sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises in a
building whose principal use is other than the service or sale of alcoholic
beverages. Said license shall not authorize the operation of a restaurant but
shall be limited to sales and service on an occasional basis by a licensee who
is not otherwise engaged in the sale of food or beverages.
      4.   Class D (Restaurant/Cocktail Lounge License): The restaurant/
cocktail lounge liquor license does and shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by a restaurant with an on the premises cocktail lounge, to
customers or guests only, for consumption anywhere within the building, during
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. daily
and until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on New Year's Eve/Day. The restaurant/
cocktail lounge liquor license shall permit the incidental retail sale of
packaged beer, liquor and wine in their unopened original containers for off
premises consumption within the hours prescribed for sale of beer, liquor and
wine on the premises. No display area or advertising of package liquor sales
are permitted.
      5.   Class E (Hotel Amenity License): The hotel amenity license does and
shall authorize, the retail sale, during the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., seven (7) days per week, of beer and
wine by bottle or can only, by a hotel to registered hotel guests or event
participants only, for consumption anywhere within the hotel building; provided
that the point of sale shall be limited to the lobby check in desk, the
breakfast room or the meeting room of the hotel, all beer and wine shall be
sold in unopened original containers, and such beer and wine, except when
dispensed to registered hotel guests or event participants, shall be kept in a
locked, chilled refrigerator case, access to which is restricted to the front
desk attendant on duty at the hotel.
      6.   Class F (Restaurant License): The restaurant liquor license does and
shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by a restaurant to
customers or guests only for consumption anywhere within the restaurant (or in
an outside dining area adjacent to the restaurant when such outdoor dining has
been authorized by an outdoor dining permit), during the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. until ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. Sunday through
Thursday, eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. Friday and Saturday, and one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Eve/Day. The issuance of a Class F license
does not assure the issuance of an outdoor dining permit.
         a.   The restaurant liquor license shall permit the incidental retail
sale of packaged beer, liquor and wine in their unopened original containers
for off premises consumption within the hours prescribed for sale of beer,
liquor and wine on the premises. No display area or window advertising of
package liquor sales are permitted; however a temporary window poster (not
exceeding eleven (11) by seventeen (17) inches) may be displayed to give notice
of periodic wine and spirit tastings or dinners where the guests will be
permitted to purchase wine and spirits.
         b.   Class F licensees shall sell alcoholic liquor in original
packages for off-premises consumption at a cash register designated for the
sale of such alcoholic liquor and which is operated by a person of at least
twenty-one (21) years of age. The Class F license requires the licensee to
operate both the restaurant and retail sales area of the restaurant. The
licensee shall not assign the privilege to operate the retail sales area. For
purposes of a Class F license, the term "incidental retail sale" means that not
more than ten percent (10%) of of the gross area of the licensed premises is
used for the retail sales area.
         c.   Class F licenses shall permit the tasting of samples of beer,
wine, and alcoholic spirits, permitted to be sold under this classification, on
the licensed premises during authorized hours of business. Licensees may charge
patrons participating in a tasting event. Licensees shall not provide more than
three (3) free samples, each of which shall not exceed one (1) fluid ounce for
wine, two (2) fluid ounces for beer, and one-quarter (0.25) fluid ounce for
alcoholic spirits, to any person in a day. Licensees must have at least one (1)
BASSET-certified site manager on-premises whenever offering wine, beer, or
alcoholic spirits for tasting. Licensees must provide food service when
offering wine, beer, and/or alcoholic spirits for tasting.
         d.   It shall be unlawful for a Class F licensee to sell a single
container of beer in its original package unless the volume of the container is
greater than or equal to ten (10) ounces or two hundred ninety-five (295)
milliliters. It shall be unlawful for a Class F licensee to sell a single
container of an alcoholic spirit in its original package unless the volume of
the container is greater than or equal to two hundred (200) milliliters.
      7.   Class G (1 Day License): The Village President may, at his
discretion upon proper application, issue a one (1) day license authorizing the
retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor on the premises for a period of
not more than one (1) day. Said license shall authorize the sale or dispensing
of liquor for consumption on the premises during the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. or until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on
New Year's Eve/Day. The daily fee for such license shall be as set forth in the
fee schedule. No daily license shall be issued for any premises not zoned for
commercial uses.
      8.   Class H (Restaurant Beer License): The restaurant beer license does
and shall authorize, the retail sale, during the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., Monday through Thursday, and eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., Friday, Saturday and
Sunday, of beer by a restaurant, to customers only, for consumption anywhere
within the restaurant only. No retail sale of beer for off premises consumption
shall be allowed.
      9.   Class I (Liquor Store License): The liquor store license shall
authorize the retail sale of packaged alcoholic liquor, but not consumption on
the premises where sold, in a store, establishment or facility in which the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor is the primary and principal business thereof,
during the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.,
Monday through Saturday.
      10.   Class J (Cultural Center License): The cultural center liquor
license does and shall authorize the retail sale and dispensing of alcoholic
liquor by a cultural center or a caterer at the cultural center for on premises
consumption to members, guests and, if a special use has been granted for a
private dining facility, for private dining event patrons. Hours of sale under
this license classification shall be those set forth in the regulations
governing the use of a cultural center in the B-2 Business Compatible District
(title 9, chapter 5, article F of this Code) and in any ordinance granting a
special use for a private dining facility. A cultural center may also sell
packaged goods of Estonian origin for off premises consumption to its members
only.
      11.   Class K (Terminal Operator License). For purposes of this
subsection, the terms "terminal operator" shall have the meaning set forth in
the Video Gaming Act of the State of Illinois. The terminal operator liquor
license does and shall authorize the retail sale and dispensing of alcoholic
liquor by a terminal operator to customers only for on- premises consumption
during the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
Monday through Saturday, and on Sunday, from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until
midnight (12:00) A.M. The annual fee for such liquor license shall be as set
forth in the fee schedule.
      12.   Class L1 (Automobile Convenience Store Limited License): The
automobile convenience store limited license shall authorize the retail sale of
packaged beer and wine only (e.g., the original manufacturer sealed and labeled
container), but not consumption on the premises where sold, in a convenience
store accessory to an automobile service station, subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Premises must have a state license for a filling station where
gasoline or other fuel is provided for motor vehicles.
         b.   Total display area for beer and wine, including floor sale area
and cooler or display case, shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total
square footage of the building.
         c.   No sale of alcoholic beverage shall be allowed from a drive-in
window or other similar opening in the licensed premises to any patron who is
occupying a motor vehicle at the time of sale.
         d.   No sale of alcoholic beverage shall be allowed between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any given day.
      13.   Class L2 (Automobile Convenience Store Full License): The
automobile convenience store full license shall authorize the retail sale of
packaged alcoholic liquor (e.g., the original manufacturer sealed and labeled
container), but not consumption on the premises where sold, in a convenience
store accessory to an automobile service station, subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Premises must have a state license for a filling station where
gasoline or other fuel is provided for motor vehicles.
         b.   Total display area for beer and wine, including floor sale area
and cooler or display case, shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total
square footage of the building.
         c.   No sale of alcoholic beverage shall be allowed from a drive-in
window or other similar opening in the licensed premises to any patron who is
occupying a motor vehicle at the time of sale.
         d.   No sale of alcoholic beverage shall be allowed between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any given day.
   B.   The maximum number of liquor licenses under each classification which
may be issued at any time is limited as set forth below; provided, that if any
one (1) of the licenses of a given classification shall not then be currently
issued or if such license shall lapse, be revoked or terminated in any manner,
the Board of Trustees may reduce the maximum number of licenses authorized for
the classification.
License Type Classification Maximum Number Of Licenses For Such Classification
A                           1
License Type Classification Maximum Number Of Licenses For Such Classification
A                           1
B-1                         1
B-2                         1
C                           1
D                           1
E                           1
F                           3
G                           1
H                           1
I                           1
J                           1
K                           2
L1                          1
L2                          1
 
   C.   The annual fee for such license classification shall be as set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule and shall be payable in full in the month
in which application is first made for such license and on January 1 of each
year. Any liquor license issued herein shall become null and void unless all
license fees due under this chapter are paid in full when due.
   D.   The hours of operation when the sale of alcoholic liquor is allowed
shall be based on Central Standard Time, except for the portion of the year
when daylight saving time is in effect, in which case the time shall be based
on daylight saving time.
(Ord. 08-7-9, 7-15-2008; amd. Ord. 10-5-10, 5-18-2010; Ord. 13-09-23, 9-17-
2013; Ord. 15-01-02, 1-6-2015; Ord. 19-01-04, 1-8-2019; Ord. 21-07-12, 7-20-
2021; Ord. 21-11-24, 11-2-2021; Ord. 12-21-29, 12-21-2021; Ord. 23-12-17, 12-
19-2023; Ord. 24-05-05, 5-21-2024)
3-2-6: RENEWAL OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF CONDITIONS:
   A.   Thirty (30) days prior to renewal of any license authorized under this
chapter, the licensee shall first deliver to the Village President a complete
application as set forth in section
3-2-4 of this chapter, together with the names and addresses of all persons or
companies having more than a five percent (5%) interest in the ownership of
said premises.
   B.   In the event any licensee be a corporation, said licensee shall notify
the Clerk in writing by certified mail at any time there be a change in or of
any officers, directors or managers of the licensee corporation. Such notice
shall include a statement of qualification of eligibility to receive a license
for all officers, directors or managers, as hereinafter defined. Failure to
make such notice shall subject said licensee to suspension or revocation of
said license or refusal to renew same.
   C.   Any license issued to a corporation shall terminate upon transfer of
ownership from one (1) individual or individuals to another of more than five
percent (5%) of the corporate stock and any application for renewal of the
license in the corporation's name subsequent to transfer of the ownership of
more than five percent (5%) of the corporate stock shall be considered and
treated as a new application and the appropriate and applicable fee shall be
required with the application. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
3-2-7: PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued under this chapter to:
   A.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community;
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   H.   A person who at the time for application for renewal of any liquor
license issued hereunder would not be entitled to such license upon a first
application;
   I.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent is otherwise qualified or possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee;
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to January 31, 1934, or shall have forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
   M.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license;
   N.   Any law enforcing public official, any president of the village board
of trustees, any member of a village board of trustees and no such official
shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   O.   A person holding a lease for the premises for which a license is sought
unless the owner of said premises shall also qualify to obtain a license. (Ord.
123, 11-7-1966)
3-2-8: RESPONSIBLE AGENT ON PREMISES:
At all hours when the sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized by license, the
licensee shall be, or shall have a responsible agent with full authority to act
for said licensee, available, either in person or by telephone, to communicate
with the local liquor control commissioner or members of the local liquor
control commission. (Ord. 08-7-9, 7-15-2008)
3-2-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   A license shall be purely a personal privilege good for the license
period and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to be encumbered or
hypothecated. The renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed
as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the local liquor control
commissioner from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the
village.
   B.   In case a licensee shall sell or dispose of his business during the
license period, he may waive his license rights and privileges in writing to
the liquor commission in favor of the successor of his business who in turn
shall make application for a new license and pay the fee as hereinbefore
described.
   C.   No person or agent of such licensee shall sell at retail any alcoholic
liquor on the day of any national, state or county election, including primary
elections, nor any town, school, park, fire district or any other municipal
election, if such election is held in a district wherein such business place is
located, during the hours the polls are open. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
3-2-10: SALES TO MINORS, INCOMPETENTS:
   A.   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor, beer
or wine to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental
treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor, beer or wine
to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any licensee, or
his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages, beer or
wine to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21)
years. (Ord. 211, 12-24-1974; amd. 1982 Code)
Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a document
issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government, or subdivision or
agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's
license, a registration certificate issued under the federal selective service
act, or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces. Proof
that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded, was shown and
reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction forbidden by
this section is competent evidence and may be considered in any criminal
prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based thereon.
   B.   No licensee shall employ at any time any minor to dispense or serve
alcoholic liquor in any form.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep books and records at the
licensed premises at all times for the purpose of investigation and control.
(Ord. 211, 12-24-1974)
3-2-11: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All premises wherein the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed must
conform to the following regulations:
      1.   Provide proper fire extinguishers which must be tested and refilled
at least once a year.
      2.   Equip all bars with running water and two (2) rinse tanks.
      3.   Provide two (2) washrooms, one plainly marked "men" and one plainly
marked "women".
      4.   No crepe paper or other decoration may be used, unless such
decoration has been fireproofed. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
      5.   All washrooms must provide either linen or paper towels, or hot/warm
air blow type dryers. (Ord. 91-6-6, 6-18-1991)
      6.   No door to public rooms, either entrance or exit, may be locked
during business hours.
      7.   All doors, both entrance and exit, must open out.
Failure to conform to the above regulations may be considered sufficient cause
for revocation of license. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966; amd. 1982 Code)
   B.   No person, while affected with a disease in a communicable form that
can be transmitted by foods or who is a carrier of organisms that cause such a
disease or while afflicted with a boil, or infected wound, or an acute
respiratory infection, shall work in a food service establishment in any
capacity in which there is a likelihood of such person contaminating food or
food contact surfaces with pathogenic organisms or transmitting disease to
other persons.
   C.   All liquor licensees shall be required to maintain a valid business or
club license in the village. (Ord. 15-01-02, 1-6-2015)
3-2-12: COMPLAINTS:
Any five (5) citizens may make a complaint to the local liquor control
commissioner for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Such
complaint shall be in writing and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation that is believed to have been violated, and the facts in detail upon
which the belief is based. If the commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he shall set the matter for hearing and shall
serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966; amd. 1982 Code)
3-2-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner may suspend for not more than
thirty (30) days, or revoke any license issued by him if he determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any provisions
of the Illinois liquor control act, and when a license shall have been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period of one
year thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquors in
the premises described in such revoked license.
   B.   No license issued hereunder shall be suspended or revoked except after
a hearing by the local liquor control commission with reasonable notice to the
licensee and opportunity to appear and defend. However, if the local liquor
control commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reasons for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall also be engaged
in the conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises such
order shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses. (Ord. 123,
11-7-1966)
   C.   Whenever any licensee or any officer, director, manager or other
employee in a position of authority of any licensee shall be convicted of any
violation of this chapter and the license of such licensee has been revoked by
the local liquor control commissioner, all fees paid on such license shall be
forfeited, and it shall be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of
this chapter for said licensee to continue to operate under said license. If
any officer, director, manager or other employee in a position of authority of
said licensee shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, the licensee
and any such persons shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), upon conviction
of any such violation. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966; amd. 1982 Code)
   D.   No person holding a license issued by the village shall, in the conduct
of the licensed business or upon the licensed premises, violate or suffer or
permit the violation of any law of the state of Illinois or any ordinance of
the village. Proof before the local liquor control commission of facts which
establish any such violation of any state statute or any village ordinance or
resolution or rule of the local liquor control commission, shall be sufficient
cause for revocation or suspension of any license issued by the village,
irrespective of whether or not a conviction has been obtained in any court.
(Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
3-2-14: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations, duties and powers imposed and created under the authority of
this chapter may be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no such
amendment shall be made without a public hearing before the local liquor
control commission, which shall report its findings and recommendations to the
village board, except as otherwise stated herein. At least fifteen (15) days'
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a paper of
general circulation in the village. (Ord. 123, 11-7-1966)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-3-3: Application For Certificate
3-3-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-3-5: Policy On Soliciting
3-3-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-3-7: Duty Of Solicitors
3-3-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-3-9: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-3-10: Streets And Public Ways, Restrictions
3-3-11: General Prohibitions
3-3-12: Registration Fee
3-3-13: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
BUSINESS: Every lodging, office or other commercial business use, whether
located in an office suite, shopping center, restaurant or stand alone store or
building.
COMMERCIAL SOLICITING: Any door to door soliciting for the purpose of seeking
to obtain sales or orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description whatsoever, for any
kind of consideration, whatsoever, except for the sale of books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers or other publications (or subscriptions thereto),
through person to-person contact, but commercial solicitation shall not include
(a) the sale of goods, whether for present or future delivery, by persons as
part of fundraising activities for local schools or youth organizations, or (b)
any activity that constitutes exempt soliciting.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITING: Going upon the premises on which any residence or
business in the village is located and: a) placing or attaching advertisements,
flyers or other written materials on vehicles in driveways or parking areas,
mailboxes, fences, gates, or entrances to such residence or business as a means
of engaging in commercial soliciting or exempt soliciting or b) ringing the
doorbell upon or near any door, or creating any sound in any manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence or business, for the
purposes of securing an audience with the occupant thereof to engage in
commercial soliciting or exempt soliciting.
EXEMPT SOLICITING: Any door to door soliciting for the purpose of: a)
supporting political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
religious causes and organizations where the solicitation of funds is not
involved, or b) requesting the donation of money, property or anything of
value, or requesting a pledge of a future donation of money, property or
anything of value; or selling or offering for sale any property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not
limited to, goods, books, pamphlets, tickets, publications or subscriptions to
publications or brochures, when the proceeds of donation, pledge or sale will
be used for political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
religious purposes.
HIGHWAY SOLICITING: Any soliciting while standing in a highway 1  for the
purpose of: a) seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; b) seeking to obtain
prospective customers for application or purchase of insurance of any type,
kind or character; c) seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers and every other type of kind of publication; or d)
requesting the donation of money, property or anything of value, or requesting
a pledge of a future donation of money, property or anything of value; or
selling or offering for sale any property, real or personal, tangible or
intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not limited to, goods,
books, pamphlets, tickets, publications or subscriptions to publications or
brochures, when the proceeds of donation, pledge or sale will be used for
political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or religious
purposes.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company or political, religious or charitable organization.
POLICE CHIEF: The Chief of Police of the Police Department of the Village of
Riverwoods.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITOR: A person who engages in door-to-door, including persons required to
be licensed as "Itinerant Vendors" pursuant to the Transient Merchant Act of
1987, 225 ILCS 465/1 et seq. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003; amd. Ord. 05-4-6, 4-19-
2005; Ord. 21-07-11, 7-20-2021; Ord. 2023-06-06, 6-6-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. As such term is defined in the Illinois vehicle code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
  seq.
3-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in commercial soliciting at any
residence within the Village is hereby required to make written application for
a certificate of registration, as hereinafter provided, before engaging in
soliciting. It shall be unlawful to engage in commercial soliciting at any
residence within the Village without a certificate of registration issued by
the Police Chief unless otherwise exempt. Once receiving a certificate,
solicitors are required to visibly carry ID cards issued at the time of
approval.
   B.   Every person desiring to engage in exempt soliciting at any residence
within the Village shall have the voluntary option of making written
application for a certificate of registration, if such person desires to be
welcome at those residences within the Village that have posted notices stating
"Only Solicitors Registered In The Village Of Riverwoods Invited", as is
provided in section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
   C.   Each certificate of registration shall be valid for a period of thirty
(30) days after issuance but may be re-issued for consecutive 30-day periods,
provided the applicant submits an affidavit within the same calendar year as
the first date of issue of the certificate of registration, upon a form
provided by the Police Chief verifying under oath that the information provided
in the original application for certificate of registration remains true and
correct, except for any matters disclosed in the affidavit. Each certificate of
registration (including when re-issued upon an affidavit) shall be deemed a
separate certificate of registration for which the fee set forth in the fee
schedule shall be charged. After the lapse of the calendar year in which the
certificate of registration is first issued, a new and complete application for
a certificate of registration shall be required.
(Ord. 18-06-12, 6-19-2018; amd. Ord. 23-10-14, 10-17-2023)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the Police Chief. The applicant shall include the application fee
with the application as prescribed by section
3-3-12 of this chapter. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
information requested on the application, which shall include the following:
      1.   The applicant's name, permanent business address (which must include
a street address and zip code), social security number, date of birth, sex, and
a physical description of the applicant; and if the applicant is a corporation,
the residence addresses of its officers;
      2.   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed or
represents, and the approximate length of time of such employment or
representation;
      3.   The areas within the Village where the applicant intends to conduct
door to door soliciting;
      4.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage and whether the applicant is
required to be licensed as an "itinerant vendor" pursuant to the Transient
Merchant Act of 1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq.;
      5.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      6.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or Federal
laws of the United States;
      7.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this chapter, or its
predecessor, has ever been revoked;
      8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or its predecessor, or of the ordinance of
any other Illinois municipality, or any Illinois statute, regulating
soliciting; and
      9.   In the case of an application submitted by any charitable
organization: a) a written statement date issued by the attorney general of
Illinois that the charitable organization has complied with the provisions of
"an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for charitable
purposes", 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/0.01 et seq., or a written
statement by the attorney general of exemption under 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 460/3; and b) a copy of the most recent annual report filed with the
Illinois attorney general pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/4. In
the event a charitable organization has not yet been required to file an annual
report, a copy of the registration statement filed with the attorney general of
Illinois pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/2 may be utilized.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath. An applicant for a certificate of registration
shall attach to the application two (2) color photographs of the person(s) in
whose name(s) the certificate of registration is to be issued. All such
photographs shall be a head and shoulders shot and shall measure one inch (1")
wide by one and one-half inches (11/2") high. If an applicant is required to be
licensed as an "itinerant vendor" pursuant to the transient merchant act of
1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq., the application shall
include a bond or a cash deposit in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
wholesale value of the merchandise that the applicant intends to offer for
sale; however the amount of the bond or deposit shall not be less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   The police chief shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   The police chief, upon receipt of a properly completed application, but
in no event later than five (5) working days after the receipt of the
application, shall either issue a certificate of registration or notify the
applicant in writing that the application has been denied because of the
applicant's failure to satisfy the requirements of this chapter. If the defects
of the application are not cured within ten (10) days after the date on which
the police chief denies the issuance of the certificate of registration, the
application shall become null and void. Each certificate of registration shall
state the expiration date thereof.
   B.   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the police chief if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the
issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation written notice thereof shall be given by the
police chief to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-5: POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the corporate authorities of the
village that the occupant or occupants of the residences in this village shall
make the determination whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to
their respective residences, as is provided in section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter shall comply
with the following directions:
   A.   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner following:
A legible card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size,
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence or
business or at or near the entrance of any guardhouse or security gate,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED
   IN THE VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS ARE INVITED
   or
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   B.   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the village clerk to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   C.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
village upon which a "residence", as herein defined, is located, to first
examine the notice provided for in section
3-3-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered In
The Village Of Riverwoods Invited", then the solicitor not possessing a valid
certificate of registration, as herein provided, even if obtaining such
certificate of registration would have been voluntary only, shall immediately
and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the notice states, "No
Solicitors Invited", then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises. Any solicitor who has
gained entrance to the premises on which any residence is located or to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises or residence when requested to do so by the occupant. (Ord. 03-8-
24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to conduct door to door
soliciting of any residences in the village prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of any day. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-9: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to conduct door to door soliciting at any residence, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-10: STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS, RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall engage in soliciting on any street, highway, or right-of-way in
the Village in any manner which tends to impede vehicle or pedestrian traffic
or interfere with the permitted and intended uses of the right-of-way. (Ord.
05-4-6, 4-19-2005; amd. Ord. 21-07-11, 7-20-2021)
3-3-11: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be a solicitor in the village
who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois, or
any equivalent law of any other state, or under the federal laws of the United
States, within five (5) years of the date of application. It shall be unlawful
for any person to be a solicitor who has been convicted of a sex offense as
defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, act 5, article 11, or any equivalent
law of any other state, within five (5) years of the date of application.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to knowingly misrepresent,
whether by express or implied statement or conduct, that the proceeds of a
donation, pledge or sale requested by such solicitor will be used for
political, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or religious
purposes, when such proceeds will be not be applied in the manner represented.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial soliciting in
the village:
      1.   To misrepresent his name, occupation, financial condition, social
condition or residence;
      2.   To use any plan, scheme or ruse to make any statement which
indicates or implies that the purpose of such person's commercial solicitation
is other than to obtain orders for or to make sales of goods or services;
      3.   To misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale
under the provisions of applicable law; or
      4.   To cheat, deceive, or fraudulently misrepresent, whether through
himself or through an employee, while acting as a solicitor in the village, or
to barter, sell or peddle any goods, merchandise or wares other than those
specified in his application for a license. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
3-3-12: REGISTRATION FEE:
Each applicant for a certificate of registration shall pay a license fee at the
time of making application to the police chief, in such amount as shall be
established from time to time in the village's fee schedule. (Ord. 03-8-24, 8-
5-2003)
3-3-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 03-8-24, 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Eligibility
3-4-4: Administration
3-4-5: Administrative Review Period
3-4-6: Powers; Duties
3-4-7: License Fees; Scope Of License
3-4-8: Restrictions On Conduct Of Raffles
3-4-9: Raffles Manager; Bond
3-4-10: Application And Contents
3-4-11: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-4-12: Record Keeping
3-4-13: Revocation And Suspension Procedures
3-4-14: Interpretation
3-4-15: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses, who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial, and
civic interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who would otherwise be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2
(b), conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances are to be designated the
winning chance; and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans, or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, limited liability company, partnership, corporation or other
entity shall conduct any raffle or sell any chances for a raffle, within the
village of Riverwoods, without first having obtained a license from the village
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-3: ELIGIBILITY:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide business, charitable, educational,
fraternal, labor, religious or veterans' organizations that operate without
profit to their members, which are located in the village and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of at least five (5) years immediately
prior to their application for a license and which have had a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives. The village president may
waive the aforementioned five (5) year period requirement in the case of any
organization which has received a determination letter from the internal
revenue service qualifying as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The village president or his designee shall be charged with the administration
of this chapter, and may designate village personnel to assist him in the
exercise of such power and responsibilities. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PERIOD:
The village president or his designee shall act on a license application within
thirty (30) days of the date of the application. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-6: POWERS; DUTIES:
The village president or his designee shall have the following powers,
functions and duties under this chapter, in addition to any other powers
elsewhere granted by ordinance or by law:
   A.   To grant, suspend or revoke all raffle licenses issued;
   B.   To receive or cause to be received all local license fees and pay them
to the village clerk; and
   C.   To receive complaints from any citizen of the village that any
provision of this chapter has been or is being violated, and to act upon such
complaint in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-7: LICENSE FEES; SCOPE OF LICENSE:
The fee for a license to conduct a raffle shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for up to four (4)
raffles during a calendar year. All fees for licenses required by this chapter
shall be paid to the village clerk at the time of application. (Ord. 07-8-11,
8-21-2007)
3-4-8: RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The license issued for the conduct of raffles is subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes issued in a single raffle
shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded shall not exceed two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for one raffle chance shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   D.   No chances may be sold, or tickets delivered, for any raffle more than
one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date set for the determination of
the winning chance.
   E.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that raffle.
   F.   No person except a bona fide officer, employee or member of the
sponsoring organization or those otherwise authorized by the sponsoring
organization may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   G.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle (but this restriction shall not
preclude the compensation of employees of the sponsoring organization from
receiving their customary salary or wages for managing or operating the
raffle).
   H.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from: 1) an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter, or 2) a nonprofit corporation or organization approved in
the license, 3) a governmental body or agency, or 4) a commercial entity
approved in the license, but only if no rent or other charge is made for the
renting of the premises above the lowest rates that are being charged by the
entity for use of the same space.
   I.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified in
the license application and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified in the license application.
   J.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-9: RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND:
   A.   Supervision: The operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under
the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
   B.   Amount Of Bond: The raffles manager shall give a fidelity bond in the
sum of the total value of the prizes to be awarded in the raffle. Such bond
must be issued by a responsible insurance company or financial institution duly
authorized to do business in Illinois, and shall be in effect from the
commencement of sales of chances within the village until at least thirty (30)
days after the raffle is conducted.
   C.   Cancellation: Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the village president or his designee not less than thirty
(30) days prior to its cancellation.
   D.   Waiver Of Requirement: The village president or his designee may waive
this bond requirement to any organization under this chapter, if upon
investigation it is determined that such a bond requirement imposes a hardship
on the organization so as to prevent the operation of the raffle. (Ord. 07-8-
11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-10: APPLICATION AND CONTENTS:
   A.   The application for a license required by this chapter shall be on such
form as may be prescribed by the village president or his designee. The
application may require the following information to be submitted:
      1.   The location of sale or other means by which raffle chances will be
sold or issued;
      2.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      3.   The time of determination of winning chances;
      4.   The name and address of the organization;
      5.   The type of organization;
      6.   The number of years that the organization has been in existence;
      7.   The date and place of incorporation or formation of the
organization;
      8.   The number of members in good standing in the organization;
      9.   The name of the president or chairperson of the organization;
      10.   The name of the raffle manager;
      11.   The cumulative retail value of the prizes;
      12.   The maximum value of each prize;
      13.   The maximum price to be charged for each chance sold;
      14.   The location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined;
      15.   A sworn statement attesting to the nonprofit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by its presiding officer and
secretary, if any.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing information, the application shall contain
such other and further information as the village president or his designee may
prescribe not inconsistent with law. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-11: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No raffle license shall be issued to:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person as defined in subsection A, B, or C of this
section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such a
person is active or employed;
   E.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of this section
is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any firm, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other
organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of this section
is to participate in the management or operation of a "raffle" as defined in
this chapter; or
   G.   Any organization which has in the previous three (3) years had a
license revoked by any governmental unit. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-12: RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   The village president or his designee shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all licenses required by this chapter issued by him and
shall forward a copy to the chief of police. The village president or his
designee shall inform the chief of police from time to time of any changes and
of the issuance, revocation or suspension of any licenses.
   B.   Each organization to conduct raffles and chances shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment, if the net proceeds
are being distributed to a payee for a particular purpose rather than retained
as general funds for the activities of any organization which has received a
determination letter from the internal revenue service qualifying as an exempt
organization under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
   C.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if licensed bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   D.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report to the
village, within sixty (60) days after the conclusion of each raffle, its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required in this chapter.
   E.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-13: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The village president or his designee may revoke or suspend any license
issued by the village under this chapter if he determines that the licensee has
violated any provision of this chapter or of law.
   B.   No such license shall be revoked or suspended except after public
hearing by the village president or his designee with a three (3) days' written
notice to the licensee affording him an opportunity to appear and defend
himself.
   C.   Within five (5) days after such hearing, if the village president or
his designee determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, he
shall state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written order of
revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of such order within such five
(5) days upon the licensee. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-14: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
3-4-15: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation,
and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
day that such violation exists. (Ord. 07-8-11, 8-21-2007)
CHAPTER 5
BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-5A-1: Application For Licenses
3-5A-2: Investigation And Inspection Of Applicant
3-5A-3: Issuance; Term Of Licenses; Nontransferability
3-5A-4: Compliance With Village And State Laws
3-5A-5: Suspension And Revocation Of Licenses
3-5A-6: License Fees
3-5A-7: Appeals
3-5A-8: Business Registration
3-5A-9: Violation; Penalty
3-5A-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Before any license as required by this chapter shall be issued, the person
desiring such license shall make application to the village clerk upon forms
provided by the village. Such application shall be accompanied by the license
fee for this chapter as required by this code and no license shall be issued
without payment of the required fee. Each application shall include such
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials
in the issuing of the license applied for. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-
2014)
3-5A-2: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Upon receipt of any application for license, where this code
necessitates an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
license, the village clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer
or agent for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the
time of such receipt. The officer or agent charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon for the village within
ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
   B.   Whenever inspection of the premises to be used in the operation of a
business trade or occupation for which a license has been applied for is
required by this code, and whenever an analysis of any commodity or material to
be used for or in connection with the operation of a business, trade or
occupation for which a license has been applied for is required by this code,
it shall be the duty of the applicant to admit to such premises, for the
purpose of making such inspection, any officer or agent of the village who is
authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time admission
is requested and to give any authorized officer or agent of the village
requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such
analysis upon request. Failure of an applicant to permit such inspection or
analysis shall constitute grounds for denying the license applied for; provided
however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for such cause unless
such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter upon the premises
in the name of the village after first having presented a warrant authorizing
such entry when applicable law requires such warrant. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-
2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-3: ISSUANCE; TERM OF LICENSES; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Upon receipt of an application for license filed in proper form with the
required fee, and upon approval of the officer or agent charged with making an
inspection or investigation when this code necessitates an inspection or
investigation, the village clerk shall issue the license applied for. Each
license issued shall bear the signature of the president and the village clerk,
or such officer duly authorized to sign in their stead. Unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code, all licenses required in this chapter shall
expire on December 31 next after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided
herein. No license granted under this chapter shall be assignable or
transferable without permission of the president, nor shall any such license
authorize any person or entity to do any business or act under it, except the
person or entity named therein. All licenses shall be valid only for the
address specified as the location of the premises in the application for
license. The village clerk shall not renew a license if any grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license shall exist under subsection
3-5A-5A of this article at the time of such renewal. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013,
eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-4: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE AND STATE LAWS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, trade or occupation
or the performance of any act which would involve violation of this code or any
other ordinances of the village or any laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 13-
11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-5: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Any license contemplated under this chapter may be suspended for up to
thirty (30) days or revoked by the president after notice and hearing, if the
president determines:
      1.   That the application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement; or
      2.   That the applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent
or misleading material statement, or has been convicted of perpetuating a fraud
upon any person, whether or not such fraud was perpetuated in the course of
conducting any business in the village; or that the applicant or license holder
has committed a felony; or
      3.   That the applicant or license holder has conducted any activities
directly related to his business in the village in an unlawful manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or an imminent threat to the health, safety,
or general welfare of the public.
      4.   That the applicant or license holder has failed to pay any fine or
penalty owing to the village.
      5.   That the applicant or license holder has refused to permit an
inspection or sampling, or interfered with a duly authorized officer or
employee of the village while in the performance of his or her duties in making
such inspections, as provided in this chapter; or
      6.   That the applicant or license holder has violated any ordinances,
resolutions or regulations of the village.
   B.   When the village finds that a licensee under this chapter is in
violation of any applicable requirement of this code, it shall so notify the
licensee and may allow a reasonable time for the correction of the violation.
The village may make a second inspection after a lapse of whatever time is
deemed necessary for the correction of the violation and, if upon the second
inspection, it is found that the licensee is violating the same provision of
this code, his license may be suspended or revoked by the president.
   C.   After receipt from the village of a notice of violation, but before the
allotted time has elapsed for compliance, the licensee may file exceptions to
the inspection report, or submit a written request for an extension of time
allowed for compliance to the village clerk.
   D.   The holder at any time may make application for a restoration of a
suspended license. Within twenty four (24) hours after receipt by the village
clerk of such application, accompanied by a statement signed by the licensee to
the effect that the provision or provisions previously violated have been
complied with, a reinspection shall be made such as will ensure that the
applicant is complying with the requirements of this code. When the
reinspection indicates full compliance, the license shall be restored.
   E.   Not less than ten (10) days after the allotted time has elapsed for
correction of violations described in the village's notice of violation (and
any extensions of time granted for such compliance), the village shall give
notice to the applicant or license holder of the date set for a hearing to
consider suspension or revocation of the license. The notice shall set forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be sent by personal delivery or by mail (by U.S.
certified or registered mail) to the licensee at his or her last known address
at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. The refusal by
the licensee to acknowledge receipt of certified or registered mail or to
accept notice given by personal delivery shall constitute a waiver by such
owner of the need for further notice.
At the hearing, the village attorney shall present the complaint and shall
represent the village. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall have
the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. All testimony shall
be given under oath or affirmation. A stenographic or electronically recorded
record of the hearing shall be kept, the president shall preside and shall
render the decision within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the
hearing, but not later than thirty (30) days thereafter. The decision shall be
in writing and shall summarize the evidence and state the reasons for the
decision.
Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked shall pay to the village the
costs of the hearing before the president. The president shall determine the
costs incurred by the village for the hearing, including, but not limited to,
court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts and records, attorney fees, the
cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous
expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the president may allow.
The licensee shall pay such costs to the village within thirty (30) days after
notification of the costs by the president. Failure to pay these costs within
thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this section and may be
cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy of a fine.
   F.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, any
license shall be immediately suspended or revoked by the president, without the
necessity of a prehearing, upon the violations by the holder of any of the
provisions of this code if the continuation of the activity or business
licensed may cause immediate hazards to human life, health or safety or where
the granting of time for correction of the violation would be contrary to the
intent of this code.
   G.   Upon suspension or revocation of the license, it shall not be posted or
displayed at the premises and instead it shall be the duty of the holder to
deliver the license to the village clerk. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-
2014)
3-5A-6: LICENSE FEES:
The fees for licenses issued under this chapter shall be as set out in the
annual fee schedule of the village. In the case of any annual license under
this chapter not purchased by February 1 of the current license year, or within
sixty (60) days after a new business becomes subject to a license, the annual
fee shall be increased as set forth in the annual fee schedule. (Ord. 13-11-27,
11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Upon written request timely made by the applicant or holder, a hearing
shall be held to appeal the village clerk's refusal to issue or renew any
license contemplated under this chapter or in connection with the suspension or
revocation of such license by the president.
   B.   An appeal shall be commenced within thirty (30) days of the date of the
receipt of notice of the decision appealed from. Appeals not commenced within
such time shall be deemed waived.
   C.   An appeal under this section shall be commenced by filing with the
village clerk a notice of appeal, a written statement under oath specifically
specifying the grounds for the appeal. The village clerk shall forthwith
transmit to the board of trustees all of the papers constituting the records
upon which the decision from which appeal has been taken was made. The notice
of appeal and the appeal itself shall be filed in such manner, be in such form
and contain such information as the board of trustees may provide from time to
time by general rule.
   D.   An appeal shall stay any court proceedings in furtherance of the
decision appealed from and all duties imposed thereby, unless the president
certifies to the board of trustees, after the notice of appeal has been filed,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion,
cause immediate hazards to human life, health or safety, in which case the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by order of the court of record
upon due cause shown. Any stay in effect pursuant to this subsection shall
continue until a decision on the appeal is rendered by the board of trustees as
provided below.
   E.   The board of trustees shall select a reasonable time and place for a
public hearing on the appeal, shall give notice thereof to the applicant or
licensee in the same manner as provided in subsection
3-5A-5E of this article. The applicant or license holder shall have the right
to be represented at such hearing by counsel. Upon the concurring vote of a
majority of its members then holding office, the board of trustees, may reverse
or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify, the decision from which the
appeal was taken, and to that end the board of trustees shall have all the
powers of the president with respect to such decision. The decision and order
of the board of trustees on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (Ord.
13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-8: BUSINESS REGISTRATION:
Each business currently operating or hereafter beginning operation within the
limits of the B-1 neighborhood business district of the village, whether or not
subject to any licensing requirements established by this chapter, shall,
within seven (7) days of the receipt of notice of the imposition of this
requirement or the subsequent inception of business within the village,
register with the village clerk. The registration form will provide for
identification of the location of the business, a description of the nature of
the business conducted and the names and addresses of the operators of the
business. In the event that either the location of the business or its nature
shall change, the operator of the business is required to so notify the village
clerk within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such event. (Ord. 13-11-27,
11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5A-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any rules and
regulations adopted herein or the requirements of any particular license issued
hereunder shall be guilty of an offense and shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as having been committed on each day which such
person shall permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. If
the village finds that the conduct of any business subject to license
constitutes a nuisance, the village may pursue any and all available legal
remedies to remove or cause the abatement of the nuisance at the holder's
expense. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
ARTICLE B. FOOD ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE
SECTION:
3-5B-1: Definitions
3-5B-2: License Required
3-5B-3: Application Requirements
3-5B-4: Plan Review
3-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: Includes any food service establishment, food processing
establishment or food store.
FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT: A place where food is processed, prepared,
packaged or manufactured for human consumption.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: Any restaurant, carryout restaurant, delicatessen,
coffee shop, cafeteria, short order cafe, luncheonette, grill, tearoom,
sandwich shop, soda fountain, tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, nightclub, kitchen
or any combination of the foregoing or any other eating or drinking
establishment or operation where fixed, movable or mobile where food or drink
is served or provided for direct human consumption either on the premises or
elsewhere with or without charge.
FOOD STORE: Any grocery store, meat market, poultry store, fish market, fresh
fruit and vegetable market, milk store, butter and egg shop, confectionery
shop, nut store, bakery, ice cream store, public pantry, delicatessen or any
combination of the foregoing or any other establishment, whether fixed,
movable, or mobile, where food intended for human consumption off the premises
is prepared, handled, transported, sold, offered for sale at retail or
distributed without charge. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate, or permit to be conducted or
operated, a food establishment within the B-1 neighborhood business district of
the village, unless the village has issued a license therefor which is in full
force and effect, and such valid and current license is displayed in a
conspicuous place within the food establishment at all times. Such license
shall state that it is specifically issued subject to the provisions of section
3-5B-3 of this article and shall include a clause whereby the applicant
specifically agrees to abide by and be bound by section
3-5B-3 of this article, upon receiving the license. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013,
eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5B-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the general application requirements, the application for a food
establishment license shall include an accurate and up to date floor plan
depicting the premises (seating and food preparation areas), plans showing all
plumbing, electrical, mechanical, and HVAC installations, and a listing of all
fixed equipment and facilities used in the preparation, storage or handling of
food. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5B-4: PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled
and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling,
or conversion shall be submitted to the village for review and approval of
building permits, before construction, remodeling or conversion is begun. The
plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, arrangement,
mechanical plans, and construction materials of work areas, and the type and
model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. No food establishment shall
be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted except in accordance with
the plans and specifications approved by the village. The village may condition
its approval on compliance with any conditions imposed by the health official
reviewing such plans who is responsible for the enforcement of the Illinois
food service sanitation rules and regulations and the Illinois food store rules
and regulations, as promulgated by the Illinois department of public health.
   B.   Whenever the holder of a food establishment license applies for
renewal, the holder shall certify to the village that at no time has such
holder performed or consented to the construction of any physical alterations
to the premises except pursuant to a building permit duly issued by the village
when such permit is required and in compliance with such permit, if issued, and
the codes or ordinances of the village and laws of the state of Illinois as set
forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-
2014)
ARTICLE C. OUTDOOR DINING LICENSE
SECTION:
3-5C-1: License Required
3-5C-2: Eligibility; Application Requirements
3-5C-3: Standards For Outdoor Dining
3-5C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any food establishment to conduct or operate, or
permit to be conducted or operated, its business outdoors within the B-
1 neighborhood business district of the village, unless the village has issued
a license therefor which is in full force and effect, and such valid and
current license is displayed in a conspicuous place within the food
establishment at all times. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5C-2: ELIGIBILITY; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any food service establishment which is the holder of a current food
establishment license may apply for an outdoor dining license.
   B.   The application shall include a plan with dimensions showing the layout
for the outdoor dining area which accurately depicts the existing sidewalk
conditions, including sidewalk width from building face to curb; location and
dimensions of tree wells; locations of lampposts, traffic and parking signs,
signal poles, trash receptacles, benches, and other sidewalk features or
obstructions, as well as design, location, size and space of the dining area,
chairs, tables, barriers, umbrellas and other facilities to be located within
the outdoor dining area, and such additional information as the director of
community services of the village may reasonably require.
   C.   The director shall review the application to determine if the proposed
dining establishment, and any encroachment into the traffic circulation routes,
will be reasonable, attractive, and promote pedestrian and retail friendly
vitality in area, and that there is adequate space remaining within the public
right of way and private drive aisles to facilitate safe circulation of
pedestrian traffic.
   D.   The director may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. The approved plan and permit shall be posted at the restaurant
premises, and visible to customers and the public. No material change to the
approved plan shall be made without prior written approval by the director.
(Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5C-3: STANDARDS FOR OUTDOOR DINING:
   A.   The outside dining area is to be attractive, and promote pedestrian and
retail friendly vitality in the area.
   B.   The outside dining area shall be located in the area in front or on the
side of the premises of an existing and lawfully operating food service
establishment and shall be under the responsible direction and control of such
establishment. It may be located adjacent to the building or near the curb but
shall be contained within the location delineated by the license.
   C.   The total number of seats (both indoor and outdoors) shall not exceed
the restaurant's previously approved maximum number of seats by more than
twenty (20) seats, and the number of seats permitted is dependent on the amount
of space available and on building and fire code requirements.
   D.   The outdoor dining area may be open to patrons from nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily.
   E.   In order to allow adequate pedestrian traffic areas and emergency
access around outdoor dining areas, the following dimensional requirements must
be observed:
      1.   At least five feet (5'), or such additional space as the director
deems necessary, of unobstructed corridor space must be maintained past the
outside dining area for sidewalk pedestrian traffic in order to ensure a clear
pedestrian passageway along the sidewalk. The director may require additional
measures that contribute to maintaining a straight and unobstructed pedestrian
passageway along the entire block face.
      2.   A space at least forty four inches (44") wide for unobstructed
ingress/egress must be maintained between any restaurant doorway and the
pedestrian traffic corridor.
      3.   Outdoor dining areas located near the sidewalk curb must leave at
least two feet (2') of unobstructed sidewalk depth between the curb and the
outer dimension of the outdoor dining area.
      4.   An unobstructed clearance of five feet (5') must be maintained
between a fire hydrant and any furniture or fixtures related to outdoor dining.
   F.   The outside dining area must be kept sanitary, neat and clean at all
times. It shall be free from accumulation of food, litter, snow, ice, and other
potentially dangerous or unsanitary matter. The restaurant must participate in
an approved rodent control program.
   G.   No food preparation is permitted in the outside dining area.
   H.   Tents or awnings are not permitted without obtaining a separate
building permit. Table umbrellas are permitted if they do not have signs or
advertisements on them, if the umbrellas are completely contained within the
outdoor dining area.
   I.   No signs are permitted in the outside dining area except those signs
that have a valid village permit.
   J.   Loudspeakers outside are prohibited, and amplified sounds from inside
the restaurant must not be audible in any outside dining area.
   K.   Any door leading into a restaurant may not be positioned to remain open
or otherwise supported in an open position.
   L.   The restaurant must comply with all applicable village ordinances and
state and federal laws and regulations. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-
2014)
ARTICLE D. MASSAGE SPA
SECTION:
3-5D-1: Definitions
3-5D-2: License Required
3-5D-3: Application Requirements
3-5D-4: Investigation Before License Issuance
3-5D-5: Grounds For Denial Of License
3-5D-6: Compliance Inspections
3-5D-7: Employment Of Licensed Massage Therapists
3-5D-8: Operating Requirements
3-5D-9: No Employment Of Minors
3-5D-10: Exemptions
3-5D-11: Violation; Penalty
3-5D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
EMPLOYEE: Any person other than a massage therapist who renders any service for
the licensee and who receives compensation directly from the licensee but has
no physical contact with customers or clients.
LICENSEE: The operator of a massage spa.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on, friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, bathing, touching, binding, painting, irritating,
or stimulating of external soft parts of the body with hands or with the aid of
any manual, mechanical, or electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptic oils, powder,
creams, lotions, soaps, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used
in this practice.
MASSAGE SERVICES: The performance of a massage.
MASSAGE SPA: Any establishment having its place of business where any person,
firm, association or corporation engages in, carries on, or permits to be
engaged or carried on any of the activities referenced in the definition of
"massage" in this article.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of "massage" as above defined.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, including the vulva or breasts of a female. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013,
eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate or permit to be conducted or
operated, a massage spa within the village unless the village has issued a
license for such massage spa as provided for in this article which is in full
force and effect, and such valid and current license is displayed in a
conspicuous place within the massage spa at all times. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-
2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5D-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to general requirements, the application for a massage spa license
shall include the following additional items:
   A.   The name of the person(s) who will serve as the licensee under whose
management or supervision the massage spa will be operated;
   B.   Copies of a valid license or licenses issued by the Illinois department
of financial and professional regulation pursuant to the massage licensing act
1 , for each massage therapist who will provide massage services at the massage
spa;
   C.   In connection with the applicant or any employee, written authorization
for the conduct of a criminal background investigation pursuant to section
3-5D-4 of this article; and
   D.   Such other information as the chief of police may request. (Ord. 13-11-
27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.
3-5D-4: INVESTIGATION BEFORE LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   In addition to the general investigations pursuant to article A of this
chapter, the police chief manager shall have the right and opportunity to
request information and assistance from any appropriate federal, state, or
local governmental agency as part of the authorized investigation of the
applicant or any employee. Criminal background check forms will be completed
and forwarded to the Illinois state police who will conduct a criminal
background investigation. In addition, the police chief shall review the
materials required pursuant to this article. Payment of all costs associated
with any investigation or criminal background check pursuant to this section
shall be paid by the applicant. Applicants shall pay a fee for fingerprinting
required for background checks in the amount established in the annual fee
ordinance as well as any additional fee charged by the Illinois state police.
These fees will be payable prior to the taking of fingerprints.
   B.   Information concerning convictions or findings of guilty of a person
investigated under this section, including the source of the information and
any conclusions or recommendations derived from the information, shall be
provided, upon request, to the applicant prior to final action by the village
on the application. Such information on convictions or findings of guilty shall
be provided, upon request, to the person investigated.
   C.   Any information concerning criminal convictions or findings of guilty
obtained by the village shall be confidential and may not be transmitted
outside the village, except as required herein, and may not be transmitted to
anyone within the village except as needed for the purpose of evaluating the
applicant, an employee, or other person investigated pursuant to this section.
   D.   Only information and evaluation standards that bear a reasonable and
rational relation to the operation of a massage spa shall be used by the
village. Any person receiving confidential information under this section who
gives or causes to be given any confidential information concerning any
criminal convictions or findings of guilty of an applicant, employee, or other
person investigated shall be guilty of a violation of this code, unless a
release of such information is authorized by this section, or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, or by the person investigated. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-
2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5D-5: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
In addition to the grounds for denial of a license enumerated in article A of
this chapter, a massage spa license may also be denied if the applicant or any
person employed by, or working in, the massage spa has been convicted of
committing or attempting to commit any of the following offenses:
   A.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children;
   B.   Any provision of article 11, entitled "Sex Offenses", of the criminal
code 1 ;
   C.   A violation of the controlled substances act;
   D.   A violation of the cannabis control act; or
   E.   An offense in any other state, or a federal offense, the elements of
which are similar and bear a substantial relationship to any offenses
enumerated in this section. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-1 et seq.
3-5D-6: COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS:
Upon issuance of a massage spa license, in addition to the inspection
requirements of article A of this chapter, the licensee shall provide any
representative of the village with a reasonable opportunity to inspect the
premises for which the license is requested and to interview the licensee's
agents and employees for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this
article and other applicable ordinances and state and federal laws are being
complied with. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to allow any
representative of the village access to the premises of the massage spa or to
hinder such access in any manner. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5D-7: EMPLOYMENT OF LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPISTS:
No massage therapist may be employed in a massage spa who does not hold a
current, valid license issued by the Illinois department of financial and
professional regulation, as required by the massage licensing act 1 , which
license may not have been suspended, revoked, or temporarily suspended by the
department under that act. Each massage spa shall maintain a current listing of
all licensed massage therapists who perform massage services at the massage
spa, along with proof of their valid and current Illinois licensure, and must
allow inspection of such records at any reasonable time upon the request of any
representative of the village. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 57 et seq.
3-5D-8: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage spa, including any and all appliances,
apparatus, or other mechanical and therapeutic devices shall be kept clean and
operated under sanitary conditions.
   B.   Price rates for all massage services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area of the massage spa in a location available to all prospective
customers.
   C.   All employees and massage therapists shall wear clean, nontransparent
outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas.
   D.   All massage spas shall be provided with clean laundered sheets and
towels in sufficient quantity which shall be laundered after each use thereof
and stored in a sanitary manner. All towels and linens furnished for use of one
patron shall not be furnished for use of another patron until laundered.
   E.   The sexual or genital areas of clients must be covered with
nontransparent towels, cloths, or undergarments when in the presence of an
employee or massage therapist.
   F.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, baths, and steam rooms and
any other physical facilities shall be kept in good repair and maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor cabinets,
shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly cleaned each day the
massage spa is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it shall be kept dry.
   G.   Oils, creams, lotions, and other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   H.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running water
using a proper soap or disinfectant before administering any massage to any
customer or client.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the massage spa to place his or
her hand upon, to touch with any part of his body, or fondle in any manner, or
massage a sexual or genital area of any person.
   J.   No massage therapist, employee, or licensee shall perform, offer, or
agree to perform any act which shall require the touching of a client's sexual
or genital area.
   K.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a client exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the state of Illinois shall certify in writing that
such person may be safely massaged and shall describe the conditions under
which such massage may be performed.
   L.   No client shall be permitted to operate any device capable of recording
or transmitting still or moving images in any area of the massage spa,
including, without limitation, still or video cameras, video recorders, camera
phones, or any similar device. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
3-5D-9: NO EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment to employ any person who is
not at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-
2014)
3-5D-10: EXEMPTIONS:
No massage establishment license shall be required for hospitals, nursing
homes, sanatoriums, or any facility at which a healthcare worker duly licensed
by the state of Illinois provides, on an ongoing basis, professional health
services to individuals, including the offices of an occupational therapist
licensed under the Illinois occupational therapy practice act 1 ; a physician
therapist licensed under the Illinois physical therapy act 2 ; a physician
licensed under the medical practice act 3 ; a chiropractor licensed under the
medical practice act 4 ; and a naprapath licensed under the Illinois
naprapathic practice act 5 . (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 75/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.
3 3. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
4 4. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
5 5. 225 ILCS 63/1 et seq.
3-5D-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any section of this article shall upon conviction
thereof be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and not less
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the second offense, and shall be fined not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any
subsequent offense. Each day that a violation is found to have existed shall be
deemed a separate violation. If the village finds that the conduct of any
business subject to license constitutes a nuisance, the village may pursue any
and all available legal remedies to remove or cause the abatement of the
nuisance at the holder's expense. (Ord. 13-11-27, 11-5-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
ARTICLE E. FILM PRODUCTION
SECTION:
3-5E-1: Definitions
3-5E-2: Permit Required
3-5E-3: Permit Applications
3-5E-4: Processing Of Application; Review Of Decision
3-5E-5: Restoration And Repair
3-5E-6: Permit Modification; Revocation
3-5E-7: Rules And Regulations
3-5E-8: Production Limitations
3-5E-9: Penalty
3-5E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
APPLICANT: Means the production company or business entity who requests the use
of public and/or private property for film production.
CHARITABLE FILMS: Mean film production undertaken by a nonprofit organization
which qualifies under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) as a charitable
organization, for which no person, directly or indirectly, receives a profit
from the marketing, production, or display of the work.
FILM PRODUCTION: Means the process of recording live action on film, magnetic
tape, or any other medium, for the primary purpose of commercial sale or
distribution as a movie, television show, music video, advertising commercial,
large production photo shoot, training film, or educational program and all
activity (such as set-up, site restoration, use of film production equipment)
attendant to such process. For purposes of this article, film production is not
deemed to occur unless the foregoing activities are supported in any manner by:
a) any vehicles used primarily to transport film production equipment; b) any
vehicles in excess of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) pounds gross vehicle
weight; or c) any film crew consisting of six (6) or more persons; or d) any
production taking place on more than a single residential zoning lot.
NEWS COVERAGE: Means film production undertaken by individuals in the employ of
newspapers, news services, and similar entities of on-the-spot, current
coverage of news events concerning persons, scenes and occurrences which are in
the news of the general public interest.
STUDENT FILMS: Mean film production produced as part of the instructional
program of an accredited school or college. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall use any public or private property, facility, or
residence for film production without first obtaining a film production permit
from and paying a permit issuance fee to the Village; provided that no permit
issuance fee shall be required for charitable films, student films, or local
access productions, and further provided that no permit or permit issuance fee
shall be required for news coverage.
   B.   The permit issuance fee shall be as set forth from time to time in the
Village fee schedule. The applicant shall pay the Village for extra duty
officers or special personnel provided or required to control traffic, close
streets or oversee other special arrangements at the hourly rates established
in the Village fee schedule. Payment for estimated services may be required
before film production occurs. At the conclusion of the film production, the
Chief of Police shall determine the final film production charges due from the
applicant. If the final charges are less than the estimated, the Village shall
refund the excess. If the final charges show a balance due from the applicant,
the final fee shall be due and payable in full upon issuance of the final
invoice by the Village.
   C.   The applicant shall pay the Village in full, before film production,
the costs for the use of all Village property and public ways. The costs billed
for such use of Village property shall be at the rates set forth in the Village
fee schedule, based on the extent of interference with or disruption of the
normal use and operation of Village property or public way. Total closure of
any public street or right-of-way is prohibited. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-3: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications shall be filed at least five (5) days (not counting legal
holidays and weekends) before the day film production is to begin with the
Chief of Police or the official designated by the Chief of Police to act as
Film Permit Coordinator, on such forms as the Chief of Police may require. The
application shall be signed under oath by an authorized representative of the
applicant. A copy of the application must be filed by the applicant with each
fire protection district in whose territory the film production will occur.
   B.   Applications shall include the following information:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons in
charge of the film production;
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the property or
properties at which the activity will take place;
      3.   The specific location at each property at which the activity will
take place;
      4.   The hours and dates at which the activity will take place;
      5.   A general statement of the character or nature of the proposed
activity;
      6.   The number of personnel to be involved;
      7.   The nature of any planned use of animals or pyrotechnics;
      8.   The number and type of vehicles and equipment to be used. Any use of
prop weapons or special effects must be discussed with the Police Department in
advance. Special effects may require additional insurance with a separate
approval and can only be performed under the supervision of police and/or fire
protection district personnel. Any use of prop guns will also require the
supervision of a police officer and proper notification to the neighborhood;
      9.   A statement concerning the need for extra duty officers or special
personnel to be provided by the Village in the course of the film production;
      10.   A copy of an agreement between the applicant and each property
owner (or letter of approval from each property owner) authorizing the film
production activity to occur on such owner's property;
      11.   A copy of the applicant's insurance policies and endorsements,
which shall protect the Village and comply with the terms of the Riverwoods
insurance and indemnity ordinance.
   C.   Many streets in the Village are privately owned, less than standard
width and are governed by homeowner associations. If production vehicle and
equipment will be parked or used for film production purposes on a private
street, and if the association for such street has asked the Village to be
contacted for approval in case of such proposed use, then no permit will be
issued unless the applicable homeowner association has given its written
consent to the Village. The production plan must assure emergency ingress and
egress is maintained.
   D.   If production vehicle and equipment will be parked or operated on any
portion of a street easement or right-of-way, the applicant shall provide a
short written description and a schedule of the proposed film production to the
owners and residents of each property in the affected area as determined by the
Police Chief, upon giving consideration to the likely impact on traffic
circulation and emergency access. This notice shall be distributed not less
than twenty four (24) hours prior to the start of the production and copy shall
be delivered to the Police Department.
   E.   The Chief of Police or designee shall review the application and
consider the following standards in determining whether to issue the film
production permit:
      1.   The nature of the Village resources the applicant has requested to
use in the course of the film production or that the Police Chief has
determined should be assigned to the film production activities;
      2.   The extent to which the personal and property rights of residents
and businesses are affected and whether such rights will be adequately
protected;
      3.   If the proposed film production will be conducted in a manner that
allows for adequate parking and traffic circulation so that the conduct of the
film production does not have an injurious effect on adjoining properties;
      4.   Whether the Village will be adequately compensated for the impact on
Village resources and operations in the course of the proposed film production
activities;
      5.   Whether the public health, safety and welfare will be adequately
protected during the film production. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-4: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION; REVIEW OF DECISION:
   A.   After conducting such review, the Chief of Police or designee may
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. For film production
taking more than two (2) days, an agreement between the Village and the
applicant may be specified to address cost reimbursement and restoration
concerns and steps to minimize disruption to the public.
   B.   The determination on the issuance of any permit for film production
lasting for five (5) days or less shall be made by the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police will endeavor to conclude the review and decision on issuing
the permit within the time period indicated in the application, provided all
application materials are accurate and complete, but the Village is not
responsible for any delay in responding to such requests. If the Chief of
Police determines that the circumstances of any such film production warrant
consideration by the Village Board, the Chief of Police may refer the
application to the Village Board for final decision. Any applicant may request
consideration by the Village Board of the denial of a film production permit or
the conditions attached to a film production permit. The decision of the
Village Board in such case on the issuance or denial of a film production
permit shall be final. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-5: RESTORATION AND REPAIR:
The applicant shall pay in full promptly upon receipt of an invoice the costs
of repair for any and all damage to public or private property resulting from
or in connection with the film production and restore the property to its
condition prior to the production. To ensure cleanup and restoration of the
affected area, an applicant may be required to deposit funds with the Village
up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in accordance with the estimated
reasonable cost of ensuring cleanup and restoration as determined by the Chief
of Police at the time application is submitted (unless a higher amount is set
forth in an agreement between the applicant and the Village). The permit
deposit shall be placed by the Village in a non-interest bearing account. The
Village shall be entitled to draw against the permit deposit to pay any portion
of any invoice for the repair or restoration of property that the permittee has
not paid within seven (7) days of its issuance. In the event that the Village
elects to draw against the permit deposit, the applicant shall be required to
restore the permit deposit to its original amount within three (3) days. Upon
completion of all required restoration, the Village shall return any remaining
balance of the deposit to the applicant. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-6: PERMIT MODIFICATION; REVOCATION:
If there is any substantial change in the film production from that described
in the permit application, an amended application shall be filed, an amended
permit shall be obtained and permit issuance fee paid before commencing any
activity regulated by this article. Failure to comply with the terms of a
permit or to file an application for an amended permit when required shall
constitute grounds for revocation of any permit previously issued by the Chief
of Police. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to promulgate rules and
regulations, subject to approval by the Village Board, governing the form, time
and location of any motion picture or television photography within the
Village, and procedures for issuing permits. Such rules shall take into
consideration the health and safety of all persons, the avoidance of undue
disruption of persons by film production, the safety of property within the
Village, and the avoidance of excessive traffic congestion. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-
7-2018)
3-5E-8: PRODUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No more than one film production permit shall be authorized in the
Village on any given day. Specific locations will be granted one film
production permit every three (3) months.
   B.   Film production, including time for set-up and restoration, shall be
limited to the hours between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M., Monday through Friday, and between eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. on Saturdays.
   C.   Any film production permit issued under this article shall be valid
only for the time period specified within the permit. (Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
3-5E-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as having been committed on each day which such
person shall permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof.
(Ord. 18-08-15, 8-7-2018)
ARTICLE F. PAVEMENT SEALANT OPERATORS
SECTION:
3-5F-1: Definitions
3-5F-2: License Required
3-5F-3: Application Requirements
3-5F-4: Penalties
3-5F-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
COAL TAR: Means a byproduct of the process used to refine coal that contains
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH).
COAL TAR PRODUCT: Means any product that is labeled as containing or contains
coal tar, including coal tar derivatives or coal tar mixtures. Any pavement
sealant that is labeled as containing or contains coal tar products is deemed a
coal tar product.
OPERATOR: Means a person or entity engaged in the business of applying pavement
sealants.
PAVEMENT SEALANT: Means any pavement sealant or similar product that is
sprayed, brushed or similarly applied to asphalt pavement in an effort to
protect or beautify the asphalt pavement.
PAVEMENT SEALANT LICENSE: Means a business license required by the Village for
operators before they are authorized to apply any pavement sealant within the
Village. (Ord. 18-08-16, 8-21-2018, eff. 10-21-2018)
3-5F-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any operator to engage in the business of applying any
pavement sealant within the Village unless the Village has issued a pavement
sealant license for such business as provided for in this article which is in
full force and effect, and which license shall be renewed annually. A pavement
sealant license shall not be required for a property owner who personally
applies a pavement sealant on a single-family lot owned by the property owner.
(Ord. 18-08-16, 8-21-2018, eff. 10-21-2018)
3-5F-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Application for a pavement sealant license shall be on a form provided by the
Village and shall, at a minimum, state the name, address, and contact
information of the person applying for the license and the person or persons
who will be applying the sealant, and such other information as may be required
by the Village. In addition to the general application requirements, all
operators applying for a pavement sealant license shall sign a certification on
a form provided by the Village, certifying, at a minimum: a) that neither the
licensee nor any person acting under the license will apply products that
contain coal tar products to any public or private property within the Village
and b) a complete list of the trade names of all products that the operator
will use for purposes of pavement sealing in the Village or the names and
addresses of the suppliers of such products, and c) that the products
identified in the application when used by the operator in the Village will be
used without alteration and in compliance with manufacturer's instructions for
each of such products. (Ord. 18-08-16, 8-21-2018, eff. 10-21-2018)
3-5F-4: PENALTIES:
Any operator who violates this article shall be subject to a minimum fine of
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 18-08-16, 8-21-2018, eff. 10-21-2018)
ARTICLE G. TOBACCO OR ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES
SECTION:
3-5G-1: Definitions
3-5G-2: License Required
3-5G-3: Application Requirements
3-5G-4: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
3-5G-5: Revocation
3-5G-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
 
                           A device as defined by applicable state or federal
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: laws, rules or regulations, which device is capable
                           of providing nicotine through vapor or inhalation.
                           Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but
TOBACCO PRODUCT:           not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
                           snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco. (Ord. 21-
                           11-25, 11-2-2021)
 
3-5G-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a business for the sale of any
Tobacco Product or Electronic Smoking Device within the Village unless the
Village has issued a license therefor which is in full force and effect, and
such valid and current license is displayed in a conspicuous place within the
establishment at all times. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
3-5G-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to general requirements, the application for a license for the sale
of any Tobacco Product or Electronic Smoking Device shall include the following
additional items:
   A.   The name of the person(s) who will serve as the licensee under whose
management or supervision the establishment will be operated; and
   B.   Copies of a valid license or licenses issued by the Illinois Department
of Revenue for selling Tobacco Products or Electronic Smoking Devices at
retail. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
3-5G-4: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any Tobacco Product or Electronic Smoking Device
Licensee or any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing,
promoting or advertising Tobacco Products or Electronic Smoking Devices, or for
any employee or agent of any such Licensee or person, in the course of such
Licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver Tobacco
Products or Electronic Smoking Devices free of charge to any person in the
Village at any place of public assembly upon public property, including any
right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the Village, any
school district, any park district or any public library or any private
property licensed by the Village for an amusement or concert. This Section does
not prohibit the distribution of coupons included in newspapers, magazines or
other publications. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
3-5G-5: REVOCATION:
Any license issued for the sale of Tobacco Products or Electronic Smoking
Devices shall be revoked upon a third conviction or finding of liability in any
twelve (12) month period for the sale of such products to persons below the
minimum age as provided by the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-
2021)
ARTICLE H. VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS; TERMINAL OPERATORS
SECTION:
3-5H-1: Definitions
3-5H-2: Licenses Required
3-5H-3: Application Requirements
3-5H-4: Revocation
3-5H-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
 
                       As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, "an individual,
                       partnership, corporation, or limited liability company
                       that is licensed under this Act and that owns, services,
TERMINAL OPERATOR:     and maintains video gaming terminals for placement in
                       licensed establishments, licensed truck stop
                       establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or
                       licensed veterans establishments."
                       As defined in 230 ILCS 40/5, "any electronic video game
                       machine that, upon insertion of cash, is available to
                       play or simulate the play of a video game, including but
                       not limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: authorized by the Board utilizing a video display and
                       microprocessors in which the player may receive free
                       games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term
                       does not include a machine that directly dispenses
                       coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes
                       only. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
 
3-5H-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to offer for play any Video Gaming Terminal in the
Village without having first obtained from the Village the proper license for
each Video Gaming Terminal. The maximum number of video gaming terminals
allowed in any licensed establishment shall be six (6). Such valid and current
licenses shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the establishment at
all times.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to own, service and/or maintain any Video Gaming
Terminal in the Village without having first obtained from the Village the
proper license for each Terminal Operator, per location. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-
2021)
3-5H-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to general requirements, the applications for a license for a Video
Gaming Terminal or Terminal Operator (which shall be separate distinct
licenses) shall each include a copy of any current license or licenses issued
to Applicant by the State of Illinois under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40.
(Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
3-5H-4: REVOCATION:
Any Video Gaming Terminal or Terminal Operator license may be revoked at any
time during the life of such license for any violation of any of the provisions
of this code, or any applicable laws, rules or regulations of the State of
Illinois relating to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40 and such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. (Ord. 21-11-25, 11-2-2021)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: General Provisions
4-1-3: Approved Containers
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BULK ITEMS: Household items of such size as to render them unsuitable for
deposit in a refuse container but which one person can lift into a refuse
truck, such as furniture, storm doors and windows, metal and lumber products
and machine parts.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs, aquatic weeds, and other material accumulated as the result of the care
of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees, and as otherwise described at 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.270.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Aluminum cans, tin, steel and bimetal cans; clear, green
and brown glass bottles and jars; newspapers, magazines, and mixed papers (junk
mail, chipboard, white and colored paper, brown kraft paper bags); corrugated
cardboard, #1 PETE plastic containers and #2 HPDE plastic containers, #3 - #5
plastic containers and bags, aseptic beverage containers, 6-pack rings and 12-
pack bands.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Garbage, refuse, industrial, lunchroom or other waste, and
other material described at 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.290 resulting
from operation of single- family residential properties and municipally owned
facilities; provided, however, that "residential waste" shall not include
recyclable materials or landscape waste.
WASTE AND RECYCLING CONTRACTOR: A contractor under agreement with the village
to collect residential waste, landscape waste and/or recyclable materials in
the village.
WHEELED CART: A two (2) wheel durable, plastic, lidded container suitable for
curbside automated waste and recycling collection by private waste haulers,
manufactured in various sizes ranging in capacity between sixty four (64) and
ninety six (96) gallons.
WHITE GOODS: The items so defined by section 22.28 of the Illinois
environmental protection act. (Ord. 12-2-3, 2-21-2012)
4-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   If approved by the president and board of trustees, the village may
specify in any contract with a waste and recycling contractor that such
contractor shall have the exclusive right to collect residential waste and
recyclable materials from single- family dwellings.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any
single-family dwelling to have accumulations of residential waste collected
before such accumulations become a public nuisance. The occupancy of any
premises for residential purposes shall be prima facie evidence that
residential waste is being produced and accumulated on such premises.
   C.   Owners, agents, tenants or occupants of single-family dwellings shall
be obligated to pay the fees due any waste and recycling contractor for the
services provided, in accordance with the village fee schedule, and shall only
secure collection service for residential waste and recyclable materials from
such waste and recycling contractor.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every owner, agent, tenant, or occupant of any
single-family dwelling to place all "residential waste" and "recyclable
materials" in approved containers as set forth and defined in this chapter and
to maintain same in good order and in accordance with the law.
   E.   Approved containers may be placed at street side or back door for pick
up (as elected by the resident) on those days when residential waste and
recyclable material are to be collected by the waste and recycling contractor.
Residents are hereby notified that, to guarantee garbage pick up, residential
waste and recyclable material must be placed at the designated location by
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the day of pick up. It shall be unlawful to place
any residential waste or recyclable material out for pick up before six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. the day preceding the pick up day during the months from April 1 to
September 30, and before four o'clock (4:00) P.M. the day preceding the pick up
day for the months from October 1 to March 31. All containers shall be removed
from street side placement no later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on the day
collection is made or twelve (12) hours after the actual collection, whichever
occurs later.
   F.   Only residents electing to receive unlimited service from the waste and
recycling contractor shall have no limit as to the number of approved
containers which the resident can use to dispose of residential waste.
Residents electing a limited service option shall not place for collection
residential waste having an aggregate capacity exceeding ninety nine (99)
gallons or more than three (3) approved containers, unless the resident
purchases and affixes a waste sticker on each excess container. The excess
container stickers shall be purchased from the waste and recycling contractor
or the village, at the rates set forth in the village fee schedule.
   G.   Residents electing to have collection of landscape waste performed by
the waste and recycling contractor may pay the monthly flat rate fee for such
service to the contractor or elect to pay per bag. Under the first option,
residents shall be limited to ten (10) 33-gallon containers or "kraft" style
bags per pick up and shall pay for excess bags at the same rate as those
residents pay electing a pay per bag service. The stickers for individual bags
shall be purchased from the waste and recycling contractor or the village, at
the rates set forth in the village fee schedule.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for containers for residential waste or recyclable
material to be stored in any location except immediately behind a building,
within an enclosed garage, or at the side of the building. (Ord. 12-2-3, 2-21-
2012)
4-1-3: APPROVED CONTAINERS:
   A.   An "approved container" for the storage of residential waste shall be a
wheeled cart or other container of standard waterproof construction of durable
metal or plastic material, with a tightfitting cover and with handles, not
exceeding a capacity of approximately thirty three (33) gallons. Drums shall
not be an acceptable container. Cardboard boxes shall not be used for storage
or collection of residential waste.
   B.   When placing residential waste for collection, plastic garbage bags may
be used; provided such bags shall be securely fastened and watertight and shall
not exceed thirty three (33) gallons in capacity. All plastic bags used for
residential waste shall comply with minimum specifications, if any, adopted by
the village.
   C.   No containers are necessary for bulk items, but bulk items shall be
placed at street side for collection not earlier than the day preceding the
pick up day. White goods are excluded from bulk items and will be collected by
the waste and recycling contractor by prearrangement, with fees billed as a
private service, as set forth in the village fee schedule.
   D.   An "approved container" for the storage of landscape waste shall be
metal or plastic containers of a capacity not to exceed thirty three (33)
gallons or biodegradable paper "kraft" type bags or a capacity not to exceed
thirty three (33) gallons. If landscape waste cannot reasonably be placed in
bags or cans, it shall be securely tied with biodegradable string or twine or
placed in bundles not to exceed four feet (4') in length, twenty four inches
(24") in diameter and fifty (50) pounds in weight. Bundles of brush and/or
branch cuttings shall be neatly stacked alongside of approved containers for
collection.
   E.   All recyclable materials shall be deposited street side in a wheeled
cart provided by the waste and recycling contractor or approved for use by the
village. (Ord. 12-2-3, 2-21-2012)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person failing to use approved containers or to remove containers from
street side placement within the time period required by this chapter shall be
fined not more than seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each violation. Any
person violating any other provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), and each day a violation continues or nuisance as herein defined is
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 12-2-3, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Certain Nuisances Defined
4-2-2: Notice To Abate; Village Remedies
4-2-1: CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health,
peace and comfort of the village for any person, firm or corporation within the
limits of the village to permit the following, but the enumeration of the
following nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      1.   Creating Sanitary Sewage: The use of any premises in the village in
such a manner as to create sanitary sewage thereon not discharged into either:
a) the village sanitary sewer system or b) those devices and structures for
treating sewage located on such premises as allowed by section
7-2A-1 of this code is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
      2.   Uncut Turf Grass Or Weeds: The refusal or neglect to maintain the
areas on any premises planted in turf grass such that such uncut turf grass or
weeds invading such area reach a height in excess of eight inches (8"). The
property owner shall cut or cause the same to be cut within five (5) days after
being notified to do so by the village.
      3.   Creating Offensive Smells: To so negligently conduct any business or
use any premises as to create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and
render it unwholesome or disagreeable to the neighborhood.
      4.   Permitting Offensive Matter To Remain: To cause or suffer the
vegetable matter, slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable droppings or
offal, or noisome substance of any kind, to be collected, deposited, or to
remain in any place in the village to the prejudice of others.
      5.   Depositing Offensive Matter: To deposit, throw or place manure, dead
animals or any other filthy, offensive or noisome substance in or upon any
street, lot, highway, park, watercourse, lake, pond, spring or other place
within the village with the exception of fertilizer normally used for home
gardening or farming.
      6.   Accumulations Of Junk, Trash: To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, brush, old iron, brass, copper, tin, ashes, garbage, refuse,
litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles, broken glass, building materials,
construction debris, automotive parts or trash or waste material of any kind
upon any lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or private street
within the village, except as otherwise provided in the village ordinances.
      7.   Buildings: To refuse to maintain or by neglect cause any buildings,
structure or excavation to be left in an unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous
condition (which condition shall be presumed whenever windows, doors or other
openings into the building are left unsecured while the building is abandoned
or unoccupied). Every building or part thereof which is in an unsanitary
condition by reason of the basement or cellar being damp or wet, or by reason
of the floor of such basement or cellar being covered with stagnant water, or
by reason of the presence of sewer gas, or by reason of any portion of a
building being infected with disease or being unfit for human habitation, or
which by reason of any other unsanitary condition, is a source of sickness or
which endangers the public health, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      8.   Outdoor Storage Of Vehicles: To allow more than two (2) motor
vehicles having a current state or village vehicle license to be parked
overnight upon any residential property in the village, except inside a totally
enclosed structure, if such outdoor parking is not undertaken as an accessory
use to serve the principal residential use of the property by those persons
occupying the principal building on such property.
      9.   Unlawful Use Of Premises: To knowingly allow or permit the rental of
a dwelling unit to a tenant who allows any of the following offenses to occur
relating to the tenant, member of the tenant's household, or any guest or other
party under control of the tenant: murder, kidnapping, aggravated kidnapping,
prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, pandering, obscenity, child
pornography, criminal housing management, possession of explosives, unlawful
use of weapons, sale of firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place,
concealing a fugitive, violation of the Illinois controlled substances act,
violation of the cannabis control act or commission of any two (2) or more of
any other crimes under the state of Illinois or under the federal government
not specifically listed above.
   B.   Notwithstanding that no provision is made in this section defining what
are certain nuisances and how the same may be removed, abated, or prevented,
those offenses which are known to the common law of the land and state statutes
as nuisances may, in case the same exist within the village limits or within
one mile thereof, be treated as nuisances and proceeded against in the manner
provided herein. (Ord. 09-8-16, 8-18-2009)
4-2-2: NOTICE TO ABATE; VILLAGE REMEDIES:
   A.   Notice: It shall be the duty of the village president or director of
community services or other officer who is so directed by one of them, to serve
notice, in writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession or
control of any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be
found, or who may be the owner or the cause of any such nuisance, requiring him
to abate the same in such manner as the village president or director of
community services shall prescribe, within a reasonable time. It shall not be
necessary in any case for the village president or director of community
services to specify in the notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be
abated, unless they shall deem it advisable so to do.
   B.   Overgrown Turf Grass Or Weeds: In all cases where the owner of any lot,
tract or parcel of land shall neglect or refuse to abate the nuisance relating
to the cutting or removal of overgrown turf grass or weeds within five (5) days
after being notified to so do by the village, the village may cause such turf
grass or weeds to be cut and to collect from the owner of the property the
reasonable cost thereof. This cost is a lien upon the real estate affected,
superior to all other liens, except tax liens, and shall be imposed in the
manner provided by state statute.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any person maintaining a nuisance as herein
defined or violating any provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), and each day a violation continues or nuisance as herein defined is
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   D.   Performance By Village: Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any
lot, building or premises within the village, the village president or director
of community services is hereby authorized in his discretion to cause the same
to be summarily abated in such manner as he may direct. Prior notice to abate
the nuisance shall not be required of the village when an emergency or other
condition exists that is likely to lead to imminent or serious danger or harm
to persons or property.
   E.   Reimbursement Of Village; Lien For Nonpayment: Any funds expended by
the village to abate a nuisance shall be repaid to the village by the owner of
the lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found,
within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill by the village for its
services. If the bill for such services are not so paid, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which such
services were supplied, provided that either the village clerk or the village
attorney first notifies the property owner in writing of the delinquency and
grants the property owner an additional fifteen (15) days from date of the
written notification to pay the bill in full including the delinquent service
charge. If the delinquent bill is not paid within the time provided in the
written notice of the village clerk or village attorney, then either the
village clerk or village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to file a
notice of such lien in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County,
Illinois, which said notice of such lien shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out the name(s) of the owner(s) of the real estate, a description of
the real estate upon or for which service was supplied, the amounts of monies
due, and the date or dates when such amount or amounts became delinquent, and
the filing of such statement in the aforesaid office shall be deemed notice for
the payment of such charges for such services. In all cases where a lien has
been recorded, recording and legal fees as set forth in the village fee
schedule shall be charged in addition to the delinquent charges. The failure of
the village clerk or the village attorney to record such notice of any such
lien shall not affect the right of the village to foreclose the lien for unpaid
services performed by the village or affect the village's right to pursue any
other legal remedy.
   F.   Foreclosure Of Lien: If the charges for village services to abate a
nuisance are not paid within one hundred eighty (180) days after rendition of
the bill, the lien hereinabove provided for may be foreclosed in the same
manner as a mortgage foreclosure by appropriate legal action in the circuit
court of Lake County. The fees and costs incurred by the village to prosecute
such foreclosure action, including all attorney fees (including the initial fee
assessed in the fee schedule for preparation and recording of the lien), fees
for the village engineer and other opinion witnesses, costs of depositions and
court reporters and court filing fees, shall constitute additional delinquent
charges for which the village is entitled to receive payment.
   G.   Manner Of Notice: Any notice from the village requiring abatement of a
nuisance or payment of village charges in relation thereto may be delivered
personally to the owner or occupant of the property affected and shall be sent
by U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested, to the taxpayer of record for
the property as shown in the most recently issued tax bill. For purposes of
giving the notice required in this section, the refusal by the owner or
occupant of the property to acknowledge receipt of certified or registered mail
or to accept notice given by personal delivery shall constitute a waiver by
such owner or occupant of the need for further notice. The acceptance of the
owner or occupant of notice delivered personally shall also constitute a waiver
by such owner of the need for further notice, including notice by mail. (Ord.
09-8-16, 8-18-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PROHIBITED MATERIALS 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Premises Maintained
4-3-3: Prohibited Conditions
4-3-4: Handbills and Notices
4-3-5: Placement of Material in Receptacles
4-3-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  5-1C-1B of this Code.
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and
welfare. (Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
OIL STORAGE TANKS, UNDERGROUND: According to the Petroleum and Chemical Safety
Division, Springfield, IL (217-785-5878), private residences are exempt from
the State ordinance requiring removal of storage tanks. (State ordinance
applies to large tanks, such as those used in gas stations.) (Letter dated 2-
24-93)
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body waste),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, animal feces
or excremental matter, abandoned automobiles or any parts thereof and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, but not limited to stones, grass, sticks, paper, rags,
straw, wood, rocks, dirt, dust, sidewalk sweeping, turf, sand, debris, junk,
automobile bodies, framework, chassis, abandoned automobiles, or any
combination of the same, ashes, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, bedding, crockery and similar materials. (Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
4-3-2: PREMISES MAINTAINED:
The owner or person in control of private property shall maintain the premises
free of litter, garbage, refuse and rubbish at all times; however, this Section
shall not prohibit the storage of such materials in private receptacles for
collection.
4-3-3: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Litter, Garbage, Refuse and Rubbish in Public Places:
      1.   No person shall throw, place or deposit or cause to be thrown,
placed or deposited litter, garbage, refuse, rubbish or any dangerous or
offensive substances in or about any public place, except in a public
receptacle or in an authorized private receptacle for private collection;
      2.   A public receptacle shall not be used for the deposit of garbage.
   B.   Throwing Litter: No person shall throw or cause to be thrown litter,
garbage, refuse and rubbish or any dangerous or offensive substance at a car,
vehicle, house, building or fence. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers.
   C.   Sweeping Certain Materials into Public Places:
      1.   No person shall sweep, cast, throw or deposit or cause to be swept,
cast, thrown or deposited in any public place the accumulation of litter,
garbage, refuse or rubbish from a building or lot or from a public or private
sidewalk or driveway, except as permitted by this Chapter.
      2.   All persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their premises free from garbage, litter, refuse and rubbish.
   D.   Materials From Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit garbage, litter, refuse or rubbish
on a public or private place from a vehicle.
      2.   No person shall drive or move a truck or other vehicle unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any load or contents
of garbage, litter, refuse or rubbish from being blown or deposited upon any
public or private place.
      3.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
Village, the wheels or tires of which carry on or deposit in any street, or
other public or private place mud, dirt, sticky substance or foreign matter of
any kind.
   E.   Material on Vacant Lots: No person shall throw, place, deposit or
permit to be thrown, placed or deposited upon any public or private vacant lot,
garbage, litter, refuse or rubbish of any description.
   F.   Materials on Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw, deposit
or store garbage, litter, refuse or rubbish on any occupied private property,
whether owned by such person or not. (Ord. 87-5-10, 5-19-87)
4-3-4: HANDBILLS AND NOTICES:
   A.   Throwing or Distributing in Public Places:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit a commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon a sidewalk, street or other public place.
      2.   No person shall hand out or distribute or sell a commercial handbill
in a public place.
      3.   This Section shall not apply to the distribution in any public
place, without charge to the receiver thereof, of a noncommercial handbill to
any person willing to accept it.
   B.   Placing on Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit commercial and noncommercial
handbills in or upon a vehicle.
      2.   This Section shall not apply to the distribution of, without charge
to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle
who is willing to accept it.
   C.   Depositing on Uninhabited or Vacant Premises:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit a commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon a private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, except by handing or transmitting such handbill directly
to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon such private
premises.
      2.   In case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, the
distributor, unless requested by anyone upon the premises not to do so, shall
have the authority to place or deposit a handbill in or upon such inhabited
private premises, if the handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or
prevent the handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or
sidewalks, streets or other public places.
      3.   Mailboxes may not be used when prohibited by Federal postal law or
regulations.
   D.   Posting Notices: No person shall post or affix a notice, poster or
other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to a
lamp post, public utility pole or shade tree or upon any public structure or
building, except as may be authorized by the owners thereof or required by law.
(Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
4-3-5: PLACEMENT OF MATERIAL IN RECEPTACLES:
A person placing litter, garbage, refuse and rubbish in public receptacles or
in private receptacles shall do so in a manner so as to prevent it from being
blown, carried, or deposited by the elements upon public places or private
property. The owner or person in control of private property may maintain
private receptacles for collection and removal of litter in a manner that
receptacles shall not be unsightly and detrimental to the surrounding
neighbors.
4-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a specific
section hereof or is limited by State statute, and each day's continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 87-5-10, 5-19-87)
CHAPTER 4
DEEP WATER WELL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Permit Required
4-4-4: Procedure
4-4-5: Criteria
4-4-6: Burden of Proof
4-4-7: Inspection
4-4-8: Duration
4-4-9: Revocation
4-4-10: Applicability
4-4-11: Appeals
4-4-12: Waiver
4-4-13: Penalty
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to regulate the construction and operation of
deep water well systems and to encourage the utilization of Lake Michigan water
in lieu of deep water well systems whenever reasonably possible.
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter:
DEEP WATER WELL SYSTEM: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed,
driven, dug, jetted or otherwise constructed that terminates in or below the
Cambrian or Ordivician sandstone formations (sandstone wells nine hundred feet
[900'] deep or greater) when the intended use of such excavation is for the
location, diversion, artificial recharge or acquisition of ground water for
human use or consumption.
GROUND WATER: Water of underground aquifers, streams, channels, artisan basins,
reservoirs, lakes and other water under the surface of the ground, whether
percolating or otherwise.
4-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit shall be required for the construction and operation of a deep water
well system. No deep water well system shall be constructed or operated without
a permit. There shall be a yearly permit fee of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00).
4-4-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   A person desirous of a permit for a deep water well system shall submit
a written form provided by the Village to the Village Engineer, together with a
permit application fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The permit shall be
accompanied by all data necessary for the Village Engineer to determine whether
or not an application should be granted in accordance with the criteria set
forth in this Chapter, including, but not limited to, the proposed use of the
property that would be served by the deep water well system, including, but not
limited to, the type of use, the size of the structure or structures, and the
anticipated number of people who would utilize the system. The Village
Engineer, within thirty (30) days of receipt of all necessary data, shall
determine whether or not a permit shall issue in accordance with the criteria
set forth in this Chapter. In the event that the Village Engineer determines
that a permit shall issue, he shall so inform in writing the permit applicant
as well as the Village Clerk. Upon receipt of the communication from the
Village Engineer, the Village Clerk shall promptly issue a deep water well
system permit.
   B.   In the event that the Village Engineer determines that a permit should
not be issued, he shall so advise the permit applicant as well as the Village
Clerk by written communication.
4-4-5: CRITERIA:
The following criteria must be satisfied before the Village Engineer can find
that a permit should issue:
   A.   The proposed deep water well system must comply in entirety with the
Illinois Water Well Construction Code 1 .
   B.   If the property which would be served by the proposed deep water well
system is situated within one mile of an existing Riverwoods-operated Municipal
supply system, a permit shall not issue and the property shall be required to
be served by connection to the existing Municipal supply system.
   C.   If Lake Michigan water is reasonably available to service the property
which would be served by the proposed deep water well system, the permit shall
be denied. Lake Michigan water shall not be considered to be reasonably
available in the event that the cost of connecting the property that would be
served by the proposed deep water well system to a Lake Michigan water source
is in excess of two (2) times the cost as estimated by the Village Engineer of
the construction of a deep water well system with all the necessary
appurtenances thereto.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the estimated costs of connection to a Lake
Michigan water source, as well as the construction of a deep water well system,
shall be estimated by the Village Engineer using available data and sound and
prudent engineering practices.
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
4-4-6: BURDEN OF PROOF:
The permit applicant shall have the burden of proof to provide sufficient data
to establish to the Village Engineer that the deep water well system will
comply with the Illinois Water Well Construction Code, that the property which
would be served by the proposed deep water well system is not within one mile
of an existing Municipal water supply system, and that Lake Michigan water is
not reasonably available to the property which would be served by the deep
water well system.
4-4-7: INSPECTION:
The permittee, prior to the issuance of a permit, shall execute his written
consent to any and all reasonable inspections by the Village for the duration
of the permit issued for the purposes of inspecting the deep water well system
to ensure that its construction, operation and maintenance fully comply with
this Chapter and/or the applicable Illinois Statutes.
4-4-8: DURATION:
A deep water well permit issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
valid for a period of five (5) years. It shall be required that deep water well
system permits be renewed every five (5) years. At the time of application for
renewal, the Village Engineer shall redetermine whether the criteria are
satisfied as established in this Chapter. In the event that the Village
Engineer determines that the criteria are satisfied, a renewal permit for a
period of five (5) years shall be issued. In the event that the Village
Engineer determines that the criteria are not satisfied, a renewal permit shall
be denied. The Village Engineer shall indicate his findings concerning the
proposed renewal to the Village Clerk. In the event that the findings are
positive, the Village Clerk shall promptly issue a renewal permit.
4-4-9: REVOCATION:
A deep water well permit may be revoked by the Village Board of Trustees after
a hearing thereon. The permittee shall be given not less than seventy two (72)
hours' notice prior to the revocation hearing. The permittee shall be afforded
the opportunity at the hearing to present testimony and cross-examine any
witnesses. The Village Board, subsequent to the hearing, may revoke a deep
water well permit in the event that the Village Board finds that the deep water
well system has not been operated in accordance with the requirements of this
Chapter and/or the applicable Illinois Statutes.
4-4-10: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the construction and operation of
any and all deep water well systems designed to provide water for human
consumption within the territorial limits of the Village.
4-4-11: APPEALS:
   A.   In the event that a permit applicant's request for a permit is denied
by the Village Engineer, the permit applicant shall have the right to appeal to
the Village Board of Trustees by filing a written notice of appeal within
fourteen (14) days of the Village Engineer's determination. In the event that
no notice of appeal is filed within said fourteen (14) days, the applicant's
appeal rights shall have lapsed and terminated.
   B.   In the event that the applicant files an appeal in timely fashion, the
Village Board shall promptly thereafter, at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, or as soon thereafter as practicable, issue its decision. The decision
of the Village Board of Trustees shall be final.
4-4-12: WAIVER:
In the event that the Village Engineer determines that the application for a
deep water well system permit does not satisfy all of the criteria set forth in
this Chapter, but that the denial of a permit would impose a substantial and
unreasonable hardship on the permit applicant, the Village Engineer shall so
indicate in writing to the Village Board. The Village Board shall thereafter,
at its next regularly scheduled meeting or as soon thereafter as is
practicable, decide whether or not a waiver from the terms and conditions of
this Chapter shall be granted, and, if so, on what terms and conditions. The
decision of the Village Board as to any recommended waiver shall be final.
4-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or other legal entity
who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined a sum
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day upon which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 85-3-36, 3-18-85)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Authority To Abate Hazardous Substance Incident; Liability For Removal
Or Abatement Costs
4-5-3: Recovery Of Removal Or Abatement Costs; Other Remedies
4-5-4: Liberal Construction
4-5-5: Severability
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT: Any circumstance involving the sudden release or
threatened release of a hazardous substance which, in the judgment of an
emergency response authority, whether said emergency response authority be the
village, a mutual aid agreement member unit, or a federal or state agency or
other local agency, threatens immediate and irreparable harm to the environment
or the health, safety, or welfare of any individual other than individuals
exposed to the risks associated with hazardous substances in the normal course
of their employment. "Hazardous substance incident" includes those incidents of
releasing or abandoning of a hazardous substance, whether or not such releasing
or abandoning is found to threaten immediate and irreparable harm, but such
term does not include any release of a hazardous substance authorized pursuant
to any federal, state, or local law or regulation.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Any material as designated pursuant to the federal comprehensive
environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980, 42 USC 9601
(14), as amended; or
   B.   Any substance, material, waste, or mixture designated as a hazardous
material, waste, or substance according to 49 code of federal regulations (CFR)
or according to 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.14 and 5/3.15, as amended,
excluding highway route controlled quantities of radioactive materials as
defined in 49 CFR 173.403(1), excluding ores, the products from mining,
milling, smelting, and similar processing of ores, and the wastes and tailings
therefrom, and excluding special fireworks as defined in 49 CFR 173.88(d) when
the aggregate amount of flash powder does not exceed fifty (50) pounds; or
   C.   Any material which is listed on the list of environmental protection
agency pollutants, 40 CFR 401.15, as amended; or
   D.   Any material which is classified by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) as either a flammable liquid, a class II combustible liquid,
or a class III combustible liquid; or
   E.   Any material which has been determined by the party storing it, or
having control of it, through testing or other objective means, to be likely to
create a significant potential or actual hazard to public health, safety, or
welfare or to the environment. This definition shall not establish a
requirement to test for the purposes of this chapter; or
   F.   Any material which has been determined by the police chief, through
information based on appraisal and assessment from reliable resources, to be
likely to create a significant potential or actual hazard to public health,
safety, or welfare or to the environment. The fact that the material in
question is not designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to subsections A
through E of this definition or is excluded by specific legislation or NFPA
classifications from subsections A through D of this definition, does not
preclude the police chief from determining that the material is a hazard, given
the totality of the particular facts and circumstances.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership, association, firm, trust, or
estate, the state or any department, institution, or agency thereof, any
municipal corporation, county, village and county, or other political
subdivision of the state, or any other legal entity whatsoever which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.
POLICE CHIEF: The police chief of the village of Riverwoods, or his authorized
representative.
RELEASE: Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or
disposing into the environment, but excludes: a) any release which results in
exposure to persons solely within a workplace, with respect to a claim which
such persons may assert against the employer of such persons; b) emissions from
the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling stock, aircraft, vessel, or
pipeline pumping station engine; c) release of source, byproduct, or special
nuclear material from a nuclear incident, as those terms are defined in atomic
energy act of 1954, if such release is subject to requirements with respect to
financial protection established by the nuclear regulatory commission under
section 1870 of such act; and d) the normal application of fertilizer.
REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT COSTS: The costs incurred by the village including, but
not limited to, the following, whether incurred within the village or outside
the village limits, as a result of rendering mutual aid pursuant to any mutual
aid agreement or pursuant to the request of another government agency: actual
labor cost of village personnel, including benefits and administrative
overhead; costs of consultants whose expertise is required to remove or abate
the incident or to assess the nature and extent of damage done; cost of
equipment operation; repair cost of vehicles or equipment; replacement cost of
vehicles or equipment which, in the determination of the police chief, is
contaminated beyond reuse or repair; laboratory costs; cost of materials or
equipment obtained directly by the village; cost of any contract or mutual aid
labor and materials; attorney fees incurred in collecting monies owed to the
village by liable parties.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous substances from
the environment, such actions as may be necessary to be taken in the event of
the threat of release of hazardous substances into the environment, such
actions as may be necessary to monitor, assess, and evaluate the release or
threat of release of hazardous substances, the disposal of removed material, or
the taking of such other actions as may be necessary to prevent, minimize, or
mitigate damage to the public health or welfare or the environment, which may
otherwise result from a release or threat of release. The term includes, in
addition, without being limited to, security fencing or other measures to limit
access, provision of alternative water suppliers, temporary evacuation and
housing of threatened individuals, and any emergency assistance which may be
provided under the Illinois emergency services and disaster agency act of 1975,
as amended, pursuant to any mutual aid agreement. (Ord. 04-7-7, 7-20-2004)
4-5-2: AUTHORITY TO ABATE HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT; LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL
OR ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   The village of Riverwoods is authorized to remove or abate the effects
of any hazardous substance incident involving the actual or threatened release
of a hazardous material: 1) upon or into property or facilities in the village
or 2) pursuant to any mutual aid agreement in effect, it being understood that
such aid will be rendered outside the village limits. The village of Riverwoods
may be assisted in such activities by the Lake County hazardous materials team
(Lake County HAZMAT team), any other municipal or fire protection district fire
department, any party to a mutual aid agreement or who is requested to lend
assistance, or independent contractors.
   B.   The following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable:
1) to the village for the payment of all removal or abatement costs incurred by
the village as a result of such removal and/or abatement activity, and 2) to
any member unit of any mutual aid agreement rendering aid to the village
pursuant to any such agreement:
      1.   The person or persons whose negligent, reckless, or wilful act or
omission proximately caused such release; and
      2.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance at the time of such release, without regard to fault or
proximate cause; and
      3.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container, transport vehicle, or transport vessel which held such hazardous
substance at the time of, or immediately prior to, such release, without regard
to fault or proximate cause; and
      4.   Any person owning or in control of any real property from which a
hazardous substance is or may be released.
   C.   In the event that any person undertakes, voluntarily or upon order of
the police chief, to remove or abate the effects of any actual or threatened
hazardous substance release upon or into any property or facility in the
village, the police chief or his designee may take such action as is necessary
to supervise or verify the adequacy of the removal or abatement. The person(s)
described in subsections B1 through B4 of this section shall be liable to the
village for all removal or abatement costs incurred as a result of such
supervision or verification. (Ord. 04-7-7, 7-20-2004)
4-5-3: RECOVERY OF REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT COSTS; OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   When the action to remove or abate the effects of a hazardous substance
includes extinguishing a fire, the removal or abatement costs may only include
the expenses as defined in this chapter related to the removal or abatement of
the hazardous substance incident and not any expense related to extinguishing
the fire.
   B.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to change or
impair any right of recovery or subrogation arising under any mutual aid
agreement or any other ordinance, statute, or provision of law. No criminal or
quasi-criminal remedy for any wrongful action shall be excluded or impaired by
this chapter.
   C.   The village treasurer shall allow for a reasonable time for payment of
the reimbursement amount and shall consider any written objections on the type
and amount of expense. In the event that no payment or response to the request
for reimbursement has been received within thirty (30) days from the date of
the invoice, the village treasurer is hereby authorized to direct the village
attorney to take appropriate legal action.
   D.   A mutual aid member unit or other governmental agency rendering aid to
the village in a hazardous substances incident pursuant to a mutual aid
agreement (including, but not limited to, the Lake County HAZMAT team) shall
have its own right of action under this chapter for recovery of costs. (Ord.
04-7-7, 7-20-2004)
4-5-4: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed to give effect to its purpose, which
is to shift the burden of liability for the aforesaid removal or abatement
costs from the citizens of Riverwoods to those responsible for the incident.
(Ord. 04-7-7, 7-20-2004)
4-5-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this chapter,
or application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall for any reason be
adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, said judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of
this chapter and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provision, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and to the person
or circumstances involved. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent
of the village board that this chapter would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional or invalid provisions, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or
part thereof not been included. (Ord. 04-7-7, 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 6
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FOR POLLUTANTS AND WATER QUALITY
SECTION:
4-6-1: Prohibition Of Illicit Discharge
4-6-2: Regulation Of Use And Application Of Lawn Fertilizer
4-6-3: Prohibition Against Use Of Coal Tar Products
4-6-1: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGE:
   A.   As used in this section, all definitions contained in section 502 of
the Clean Water Act, 40 CFR 122, and 35 Illinois Administrative Code 309 shall
apply and are incorporated herein by reference. For convenience, simplified
explanations of some regulatory/statutory definitions have been provided, but
in the event of a conflict, the definition found in the referenced statute or
regulation takes precedence.
    ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the Village separate storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater, except discharges authorized under
an NPDES permit and discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
   STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff and
drainage.
   VILLAGE SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM: The conveyance or system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, Village streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) located in the Village and
which convey stormwater to any surface water of the State of Illinois.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause nonstormwater to
enter the Village separate storm sewer system resulting in an illicit
discharge. Certain instances of nonstormwater, when allowed pursuant to the
NPDES permit, do not constitute violations of this section. Such instances may
include the following:
      Air conditioning condensate,
      Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges,
      Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges,
      Discharges from potable water sources,
      Discharges or flows from firefighting activities,
      Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
      Footing drains,
      Foundation drains,
      Ground water infiltration,
      Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation),
      Landscape irrigation water,
      Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed),
      Pumped ground water,
      Residual street wash water,
      Rising ground waters,
      Routine external building wash down which does not use detergents,
      Springs,
      Storm sewer cleaning water,
      Water from crawl space pumps,
      Water from individual residential car washing, and
      Water line and fire hydrant flushing.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day such violation is continued shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 09-1-2, 1-20-2009; amd. Ord. 09-4-9, 4-21-
2009)
4-6-2: REGULATION OF USE AND APPLICATION OF LAWN FERTILIZER:
   A.   As used in this section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
   COMMERCIAL APPLICATOR: A person who is engaged in the business of applying
fertilizer for hire.
   LAWN FERTILIZER: Any fertilizer, whether distributed by a commercial or
noncommercial applicator, which is distributed for nonagricultural use, such as
for lawns, golf courses, parks and cemeteries. Lawn fertilizer does not include
fertilizer products intended primarily for garden and indoor plant application
or the following natural products: agricultural limestone, marl, sea solids and
unprocessed animal manure, which have not been manipulated so as to alter or
change them chemically, burnt or hydrated lime.
   NONCOMMERCIAL APPLICATOR: A person, including a homeowner or renter, who
applies fertilizer but who is not a commercial applicator.
   B.   No commercial or noncommercial applicator shall apply to any area
within the village any lawn fertilizer, liquid or granular, that is labeled as
containing more than zero percent (0%) phosphorus or other compound containing
phosphorus, such as phosphate, except as provided in subsection D of this
section.
   C.   No commercial or noncommercial applicator shall apply any lawn
fertilizer to:
      1.   Impervious surfaces, including parking lots, roadways and sidewalks;
      2.   Areas within drainage ditches;
      3.   Waterways or within ten feet (10') thereof; and
      4.   Any delineated wetland and any area established as a natural buffer
zone therefor.
Any lawn fertilizer application occurring in violation of the foregoing must be
immediately contained and either legally applied to turf or placed in an
appropriate container.
   D.   The prohibition against the use of fertilizer containing phosphorus
shall not apply to:
      1.   Newly established turf or lawn areas during their first growing
season.
      2.   Turf and lawn areas for which soil tests confirm the ambient
phosphorus content is below median phosphorus levels for typical area soils.
The scope of this exemption shall only be for such volume or concentration of
phosphorus necessary to permit such turf or lawn area to contain phosphorus
levels equal to the median phosphorus levels for typical area soils. Phosphorus
applied as fertilizer pursuant to this exemption shall be integrated into the
soil where it is immobilized and generally protected from loss by stormwater
runoff.
      3.   Agricultural uses, vegetable and flower gardens or application to
trees or shrubs in accordance with sound horticultural practices.
      4.   The naturally occurring phosphorus in unadulterated natural or
organic fertilizing products such as yard waste compost.
   E.   The owner or manager of any business in the village which sells any
fertilizer at retail shall be required to post a sign at the point of sale for
fertilizer advising customers that the application of lawn fertilizer
containing phosphorus is prohibited in the village except when allowed by the
regulations set forth in this section. Such sign shall be legible and
conspicuously posted next to the lawn fertilizer, no less than four feet (4')
above the ground.
   F.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day such violation is continued shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 09-4-9, 4-21-2009)
4-6-3: PROHIBITION AGAINST USE OF COAL TAR PRODUCTS:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
following definitions:
   COAL TAR: Means a byproduct of the process used to refine coal that contains
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH).
   COAL TAR PRODUCT: Means any product that is labeled as containing or
contains coal tar, including coal tar derivatives or coal tar mixtures. Some
but not all pavement sealants contain coal tar products. Any pavement sealant
that is labeled as containing or contains coal tar products is deemed a coal
tar product.
   OPERATOR: Means a person or entity engaged in the business of applying
pavement sealants.
   PAVEMENT SEALANT: Means any pavement sealant or similar product that is
sprayed, brushed or similarly applied to asphalt pavement in an effort to
protect or beautify the asphalt.
   B.   No person, including any operator, shall apply any coal tar products on
any pavement within the Village.
   C.   A person who owns property on which coal tar product is applied after
the date of adopting this section is presumed to have permitted a coal tar
product to be applied in violation of this section.
   D.   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or display for sale any pavement
sealant within the Village that is labeled as containing coal tar.
   E.   Any person, who applies, sells, offers to sell or displays for sale any
pavement sealant within the Village that is labeled as containing coal tar is
presumed to have applied, sold, offered to sell or displayed the product in
violation of this section.
   F.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day such violation is continued shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 18-08-16, 8-21-2018, eff. 10-21-2018)
CHAPTER 7
REGULATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-7-2: Other Ordinances
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Inspections; Notice Designating Dangerous Or Unsafe Building
4-7-5: Determination Of Vacant Buildings
4-7-6: Appeal Of Determination Of Vacant Buildings
4-7-7: Obligation To Register Vacant Buildings
4-7-8: Requirement To Submit Action Plan
4-7-9: Standards For Approval Of Plan
4-7-10: Authority To Modify Plan
4-7-11: Failure To Comply With Plan
4-7-12: Administrative Warrant
4-7-13: Certification
4-7-14: Appeals
4-7-15: Notice Of Foreclosure
4-7-16: Enforcement And Penalties
4-7-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare by:
   A.   Establishing a program for identification, registration, and regulation
of buildings which are or become vacant on and after the effective date of this
chapter, to prevent such buildings from becoming public nuisances;
   B.   Determining the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings; and
   C.   Providing for administration, enforcement and imposition of penalties.
(Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-2: OTHER ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations which prescribe
standards other than are provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BUILDING: As defined in section
9-2-3 of this code.
CODE: The Riverwoods village code.
DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE BUILDING: All buildings that are found to pose a danger to
the life, health, property or safety of the public by not providing minimum
safeguards to protect or warn the public in the event of a fire, or because
such structure contains unsafe equipment, or is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty or incomplete construction
or unstable, that partial or complete collapse or systems failures are
possible.
DIRECTOR: The director of community services of the village.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, trust, or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the premises; or recorded in the official records of
the state, county, or municipality as holding title to the premises; or
otherwise having control or possession of the premises, including the guardian
of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the
estate of such person, if ordered to take possession of real property by a
court.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust,
or other entity as well as an individual.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any building thereon.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Includes the following:
   A.   The physical condition, or uses of any premises regarded as a public
nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or under this
code; or
   B.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances that is likely to attract children to danger or harm thereby
constituting an attractive nuisance, including, but not limited to, abandoned
wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or structures; or
   C.   Any building which has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities; or
   D.   Any building found to be unsafe for human habitation or use; or
   E.   Any building which, from inspection, is found to have physical
conditions that create an obvious fire hazard or render the building so unsafe
or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property; or
   F.   Any premises which is unsanitary, is exhibiting rodent harborage or
infestation, or which is littered with rubbish or garbage, or which has an
uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
   G.   Any building that is: dangerous; in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; improperly constructed; unsecured; vacant with the
doors, windows, or other openings boarded up or secured by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction of similar type; damaged by fire to the extent that it no longer
provides shelter; in danger of collapse or structural failure; and dangerous to
anyone on or near the premises; or
   H.   Any building designated as a "dangerous or unsafe building" as defined
in this chapter; or a public nuisance anywhere in this code, as it may be
amended.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to occupy the building,
including buildings ordered vacated by the director pursuant to authority
granted by this code. In determining whether a building is "unoccupied", the
director may consider one or more of the following factors:
   A.   Substantially all lawful residential or business activity in the
building has ceased.
   B.   The building is substantially devoid of contents. The condition and
value of fixtures or personal property in the building are relevant to this
determination.
   C.   The building's utility services, such as water, electric or natural
gas, have been shut off.
VACANT BUILDING: Any unoccupied building that has not been legally occupied for
a consecutive period of at least sixty (60) days by any lawful occupant or
occupants unless one of the following is true:
   A.   The building is the subject of an active building permit for repair or
rehabilitation and the owner is progressing diligently to complete the repair
or rehabilitation; or
   B.   The building meets all codes, is not in a state of disrepair or
deterioration, is actively being maintained and monitored by the owner, and is
ready for occupancy or is actively being offered for sale, lease or rent. (Ord.
10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-4: INSPECTIONS; NOTICE DESIGNATING DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE BUILDING:
   A.   Inspections Authorized: The director shall have authority to inspect
the condition of buildings located within the village for the purpose of
safeguarding the health and safety of all occupants and of the general public;
provided, however, that such inspections must be made at reasonable times and
upon reasonable notice to, and with the consent of, the owner and occupants,
except when an existing emergency requires immediate action.
   B.   When Legal Process Required: If the owner or occupant refuses entry,
then an order of court, subpoena and other legal process shall be necessary to
any entry, examination or survey in connection with the inspections authorized
by this section.
   C.   Inspection Upon Warrant: Whenever the director, after presentation of
proper credentials and request for entry to inspect, is refused access to any
building, the village is authorized to petition any judge for the issuance of a
search warrant authorizing the inspection of such building, for the purpose of
making such inspections as shall be necessary to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Owner's Right Of Entry: Every occupant of a building shall give the
owner thereof, or his or her agent access to any part of such building, for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful rule or
regulation adopted or any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. Entry pursuant to this subsection shall be made only at
reasonable times and after reasonable notice to the owner and occupant unless
an existing emergency requires immediate action.
   E.   Notice Required: Whenever in the opinion of the director, any violation
of the provisions of this chapter is found to exist, the director shall, within
fifteen (15) days after his determination of such violation, serve written
notice of such alleged violation upon the owner. A copy of such notice shall be
kept by the village clerk.
   F.   Method Of Service: Notice shall be given either by personal service or
by mailing a copy thereof to the owner by first class United States mail, with
proper postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, at the last
known address of the owner listed by the Lake County recorder of deeds. Any
person making such service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of
service. If neither personal service nor delivery by mail is effective to
actually notify the owner or the identity or whereabouts of the owner cannot be
ascertained, then notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the
premises were last assessed on the Lake County tax roll shall be sufficient
notice.
   G.   Required Contents: Such notice may include more than one alleged
violation, shall demand compliance with this chapter and shall specify a period
of time for compliance, which shall be such time as, in the opinion of the
director, is reasonably required to effect changes necessary for compliance.
   H.   Permissible Contents: Such notice may contain an outline of remedial
action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and with any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   I.   Designation Of Dangerous Or Unsafe Building: If any alleged violation,
of which notice has been given in conformity with this section, is not
corrected or eliminated within the time specified in such notice (which shall
allow at least 15 days for compliance except in the event of any condition
posing an imminent danger to life or property), then in addition to exercising
such other remedies as may be provided in this chapter, where the alleged
violations are of such a nature or extent that, in the opinion of the director,
they render the building a dangerous or unsafe building, the director shall
make written findings that declare and designate the building as a dangerous or
unsafe building and a public nuisance. Notice of such findings shall be given
in compliance with the following procedures:
      1.   Notice And Placarding: The director shall serve notice of the
designation of the building as a dangerous or unsafe building and a public
nuisance, upon the owner of the building in the manner required by subsection F
of this section and shall post a placard at the main entrance of the affected
building. Where the identity or whereabouts of the owner cannot be ascertained,
notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the premises were last
assessed on the Lake County tax roll shall be sufficient notice in addition to
posting a placard.
      2.   Contents Of Notice And Placard: The notices and placards required by
this subsection shall state that the affected building is by such notice or
placard declared to be a dangerous or unsafe building and a public nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; shall state the specific
alleged uncorrected violations of this chapter deemed sufficient to justify
such designation; and shall further state that such designation may result in
an order for demolition. Such notice shall require the party to appear before
the building code official designated by the village at a hearing to be held at
a specified place and time, not less than ten (10) days following the date of
the notice, to show cause why the designated building or part thereof, should
not be vacated and repaired or demolished in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      3.   Defacing Or Removing Placard Prohibited: No person shall deface or
remove the placard required by this subsection from any building or part
thereof, which has been designated as a dangerous or unsafe building and a
public nuisance, except as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-5: DETERMINATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   The director shall evaluate all buildings in the village appearing to
be unoccupied buildings and make a determination for each as to whether the
building is a "vacant building" within the meaning of this chapter. Using the
exemptions provided in such definition, the director may determine that a
building is not a vacant building to be regulated under this chapter for a
stated period, if upon consideration of reliable, substantiated and sufficient
evidence, the director determines that regulation of the building under this
chapter would not serve the public health, welfare, and safety and makes
written findings in support of this decision. The determination shall be in
writing and shall state the factual basis for the determination.
   B.   Within fifteen (15) days after the director determines any building to
be a vacant building, the director shall serve notice of his written
determination and factual findings upon the owner and any mortgagees holding
liens of record against the premises. Notice given to the owner shall be served
in the manner required by subsection
4-7-4F of this chapter. Failure of delivery shall not excuse a person from
complying with this chapter. The director may personally serve or cause
personal service of the notice of determination. Any person making such service
shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The director
shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each notice of determination
sent. The director shall also furnish notice to each mortgage lienholder by
first class United States mail, with proper postage prepaid, certified mail,
return receipt requested, at the last address furnished for such purpose by the
mortgage lienholder to the village, or if such address has not been furnished,
then notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the premises were
last assessed on the Lake County tax roll shall be sufficient notice to the
lienholder. The director shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each
notice of determination sent.
   C.   The notice shall:
      1.   Specify a date and time on which the director requests to conduct a
code compliance inspection of the vacant building and surrounding land to
determine the extent of compliance with applicable property maintenance,
building, health, fire, and plumbing codes.
      2.   Contain a statement of the obligations of the owner to register the
vacant building and submit an action plan, a copy of the registration form the
owner is required to file pursuant to section
4-7-7 of this chapter, and a notice of the owner's right to appeal the
director's determination to the village president; and
      3.   Include a statement that the owner has the right to withhold his or
her consent to the inspection and require the village to attempt to obtain a
warrant to conduct the inspection.
   D.   The fees payable to the village for code compliance inspections and
reinspections, as set forth from time to time in the annual fee schedule, will
be the responsibility of the owner. Such unpaid costs and fees, if not paid
within thirty (30) days after demand by the village, shall constitute a lien
upon the premises in favor of the village. (Ord. 14-02-02, 2-4-2014)
4-7-6: APPEAL OF DETERMINATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   An owner of a building determined to be a vacant building may appeal
that determination to the village president. Such appeal shall be in writing
and shall be filed with the village clerk within fifteen (15) days after the
date of the director's notice of determination. The filing of an appeal stays
the owner's obligation to register the building under section
4-7-7 of this chapter. The appeal shall contain a complete statement of the
reasons the owner disputes the vacant building determination, shall set forth
specific facts in support thereof, and shall include all evidence the owner
relies upon to support the appeal. The village president shall decide the
appeal on the basis of evidence presented by the owner's written appeal and in
the director's written determination.
   B.   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to persuade
the village president that had the evidence been known to the director at the
time the director made the determination, the director would more likely than
not have determined that the subject building was not a vacant building within
the meaning of this chapter.
   C.   The village president shall send written notice of a decision to the
owner within ten (10) days of his or her receipt of the appeal. The village
president may, but is not required to, seek additional information from the
owner. The village president may, upon written notice thereof to the owner,
take no more than ten (10) additional days, to decide the appeal if he or she
determines that such additional time is required for consideration of the
appeal.
   D.   Upon request of any owner, the director may review the circumstances
and condition of an unoccupied building and issue a written determination that,
as of the date of such letter, the provisions of section
4-7-8 of this chapter do not apply to such building. If the director concludes
that section
4-7-8 of this chapter is applicable, then the owner shall have the right to
appeal the director's determination to the village president as provided
herein. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-7: OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   Any owner who knows, or from all the facts and circumstances should
know, that his or her building is a "vacant building" within the meaning of
this chapter, or the owner who is provided a written determination from the
village that his or her building is a vacant building, shall take the following
actions within seven (7) days after the earlier of: 1) the date of director's
notice of determination that the building is a vacant building or 2) the
occurrence of the facts that would cause a reasonable person to believe that
the building was a vacant building, whichever is applicable, except otherwise
provided herein:
      1.   Register the building with the village, by submitting a form
provided by the director accompanied by the annual nonprorated vacant building
registration fee as provided in the annual fee schedule then in effect. The
form shall include, as a minimum, the name, street address, and telephone
number of the owner (with a responder or emergency operator on call on a 24
hour basis); the case name and number of any litigation pending concerning or
affecting the building, including bankruptcy cases; and the name, street
address, and telephone number of all persons with any legal interest in the
building or the premises. The form shall require the owner to identify the
name, street address (post office box is not acceptable), and telephone number
of a natural person twenty one (21) years of age or older who maintains a
permanent address in Lake County, Illinois, to accept service on behalf of the
owner with respect to any notices the director sends pursuant to this chapter
or service of process in any proceeding commenced to enforce any provision of
this chapter. The form shall require the owner to indicate his or her
"acceptance of notice by posting" consenting to service of notices sent or
required to be sent, pursuant to this chapter, by posting on the building if
the owner fails to renew the registration, if required, or maintain as current
with the director the information required regarding the person designated to
accept notice and service of process.
      2.   Renew the vacant building registration each year on the anniversary
date of the first filing for the time the building remains a vacant building
and pay the annual fee as provided in the annual fee schedule.
      3.   File an amended registration within fifteen (15) days of any change
in the information contained in the annual registration. A new registration is
required for any change in ownership whatsoever.
      4.   Allow for code compliance inspections of the vacant building and
surrounding land to determine the extent of compliance with all applicable
property maintenance, building, electrical, plumbing, fire and similar codes
and ordinances. After the owner's receipt of the notice of determination that
the owner's building is a vacant building, the owner shall either confirm the
tentative date for the inspection set forth in the notice or shall schedule a
new date and time for same with the director. If the owner fails to confirm the
tentative date and time for the inspection or refuses to schedule or permit the
inspection within a reasonable time, the village may obtain an administrative
search warrant to accomplish the inspection.
      5.   Pay all costs and fees due to the village as provided in the annual
fee schedule, including those resulting from code compliance inspection within
thirty (30) days of the inspection.
      6.   Obtain public liability insurance insuring against loss arising from
bodily injury or property damage occurring on or about the premises and
maintain such insurance for as long as the building is a vacant building, and
file evidence of such insurance with the director. Such insurance shall have a
minimum limit of liability of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      7.   On written notice from the village, provide bonded, licensed, and
insured security guard service at the vacant building between the hours of
three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Such service to remain
in place until the village gives written notice that the service is no longer
required. The village president may require such service when the director
makes a written determination that the vacant building constitutes a fire
hazard, is otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or involves
illegal or improper use, occupancy, or maintenance, under such conditions that
securing the building without fencing would be insufficient to prevent the
actual or threatened harm.
   B.   If the owner's obligation to register a vacant building is stayed
pending an appeal to the village president, then the owner shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter within seven (7) days after the appeal under
section
4-7-6 of this chapter is denied by the village president. (Ord. 14-02-02, 2-4-
2014)
4-7-8: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT ACTION PLAN:
   A.   At the time a vacant building is registered as required herein and in
any event not more than seven (7) days after requested by the village, the
owner shall submit to the village an action plan for approval by the village.
The village may prescribe a form for the action plan. If the owner fails to
submit the required action plan when required by this chapter, the village
president may direct the director to determine the contents of the action plan.
An action plan shall contain the following as a minimum:
      1.   Actions to repair any doors, windows, or other openings which are
boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional methods
used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction or similar
type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with board removed. The owner shall
maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state until the building is
reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If the owner demonstrates
that securing of the building will provide adequate protection to the public,
the director may waive the requirement of an enclosure.
      2.   For premises that the director determines as being or containing
public nuisances, as defined in this chapter, then the action plan shall
identify actions to remedy such public nuisances and, if necessary, to secure
the premises from harboring attractive nuisances.
      3.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the director.
      4.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
      5.   Actions to maintain the building and premises and the exteriors in
compliance with this code.
      6.   Actions to ready the building for human habitation, with a time
schedule, identifying the date the building will be habitable and occupied or
offered for occupancy or sale. The time schedule shall include date(s) of
commencement and completion of all action required to achieve habitability.
      7.   Exterior safety lighting approved by the director.
      8.   All existing automatic fire sprinkler systems, alternative automatic
fire extinguishing systems, standpipe systems, and fire alarm and detection
systems, including monitoring by the fire protection district for the portion
of the village in which the premises are located, shall be maintained and
remain in service.
   B.   No action plan shall provide for the boarding of the exterior of any
building to achieve security or enclosure from the elements except if needed on
an emergency, temporary basis when approved by the director. It is the policy
of the village that boarding is a temporary solution to prevent unauthorized
entry into a vacant building and that boarded buildings are a public nuisance.
A vacant building may not remain boarded longer than fifteen (15) days unless
an extension of that time is part of a plan approved by the director.
   C.   After conducting the initial inspection, the director shall issue a
written notice to the owner setting forth the alleged failures and advising the
owner or responsible party that such failures must be corrected, and shall
specify an appropriate or acceptable method of correction and specific date for
the correction of any violation alleged. At the end of the period of time
allowed for the correction of any violation alleged, which was stated in the
inspection notice, the director shall reinspect the vacant building. The owner
of a vacant building shall initiate and perform all remedial actions in good
faith necessary to cure all outstanding code violations and bring such vacant
building into compliance with the approved action plan. The village shall send
inspection reports to the owner within thirty (30) days after each inspection
takes place. Periodic reinspections shall take place, as necessary, until code
compliance is achieved and annually thereafter. Unpaid inspection fees shall be
a lien upon the premises. The certificate of occupancy for the vacant building
shall be revoked when, based upon any inspection, the director determines the
vacant building is unfit for occupancy, does not meet minimum requirements for
safety and occupancy or is a "public nuisance", as defined in this chapter. If
the violations are determined upon reinspection by the director not to have
been corrected, the village may initiate legal proceedings for the immediate
correction of the alleged violations, including seeking the appointment of a
receiver or other judicial remedies.
   D.   Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances, including this chapter, nor does it preclude
any of the actions the village is authorized to take pursuant to this chapter
or elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 14-02-02, 2-4-2014)
4-7-9: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF PLAN:
   A.   The director shall review the proposed action plan in accordance with
the standards below. The action plan shall achieve compliance with this
chapter, as determined by the director, within forty five (45) days of
submission, with such extensions as weather or circumstances beyond the
reasonable control of the owner, as determined by the director, shall warrant;
provided, that any violations which could lead to imminent loss of life or
material damage to property shall be corrected forthwith. Based upon the report
of the director, the village president shall send notice to the owner of the
vacant building of the village's determination whether to approve the action
plan. In considering the appropriateness of the action plan, the director shall
include the following in his or her consideration and shall make written
findings as to each:
      1.   The purposes of this chapter and intent of the village to minimize
the time a building is temporarily boarded or otherwise vacant.
      2.   The effect of the building and the proposed action plan on adjoining
property.
      3.   The length of time the building has been vacant.
      4.   The presence of any public nuisances on the premises.
      5.   The likelihood that the action plan thereof will prevent or
ameliorate the condition it is designed to address.
   B.   The village reserves the right to elect to have and enforce a lien upon
the premises for all of the village's costs and expenses, which lien shall be
superior to all other liens and encumbrances as permitted by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1, and nothing in this chapter or in connection
with the review or approval of an action plan shall be construed as a
limitation or waiver by the village of such lien rights. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-
2010)
4-7-10: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY PLAN:
The village shall, upon notice to the owner, have the right to modify the
action plan by modifying the dates of performance, the proposed methods of
action, or by imposing additional requirements consistent with this chapter as
may be deemed necessary or advisable to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN:
Failure to comply with the approved action plan shall constitute a violation of
this chapter subjecting the owner of the vacant building to penalties as
provided in this chapter and to any remedies the village may avail itself of as
provided for herein and elsewhere in this code, including, but not limited to,
an action to compel correction of property maintenance violations. (Ord. 10-12-
25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-12: ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT:
   A.   If the owner (or any occupant) does not consent to a code compliance
inspection when authorized or required by this chapter, the director or his
designee may seek in the circuit court of Lake County a warrant in accordance
with the appropriate laws of the state of Illinois to allow an inspection. The
application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon which the warrant is
being sought and shall include a statement that the inspection will be limited
to a determination whether there are violations of the village's applicable
property maintenance, building, health, fire, and plumbing codes and
ordinances. The court may consider any of the following factors along with such
other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant
shall issue:
      1.   Vacant building determination;
      2.   Eyewitness account of violation;
      3.   Citizen complaints;
      4.   Plain view violations;
      5.   Violations apparent from village records;
      6.   Property deterioration;
      7.   Age of property;
      8.   Nature of alleged violation;
      9.   Passage of time since last inspection;
      10.   Previous violations on the property.
   B.   Any code compliance inspection conducted pursuant to administrative
warrant shall determine whether there is any unsecured access to the premises
(doors, windows and other points of entry); whether flammable liquids or other
hazardous materials are stored on the premises; whether the utilities,
including water, sanitary sewer, gas and/or electricity are running or have
been shut off; whether the sump pump is working; whether there is any standing
water in the basement or crawl space; whether the furnace and/or hot water
heater are operable, if the gas has not been turned off to the premises;
whether the roof or other exterior surface or enclosures are leaking or have
been water damaged; whether there are any visible signs of mold; whether there
are animals, rodents, vermin or insects present on the premises or in the
premises; whether all outdoor pools and/or hot tubs are securely covered and/or
drained; and whether any improvements or additions have been unlawfully
constructed on the premises or unlawfully occupied.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the village from entering,
inspecting or securing any premises when permitted by applicable law. (Ord. 14-
02-02, 2-4-2014)
4-7-13: CERTIFICATION:
A certificate of occupancy for vacant buildings issued by the director and
payment in full of all fees, fines, water bills, and other financial
obligations imposed pursuant to this code are required prior to any occupancy
of a vacant building for which the owner was required to file and implement an
action plan. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-14: APPEALS:
Appeals may be taken to the board of trustees of the village by the following
persons, at the following times, in the following manner, and with the
following effects (provided, that appeal of the designation of a vacant
building shall not be subject to this section, but shall be determined in
accordance with section
4-7-6 of this chapter):
   A.   Scope Of Appeal: Subject to the provisions of this section, an appeal
may be taken from any written finding or decision issued by the village or
notice of violation issued pursuant thereto, which finds a violation of any
provision of this chapter; designates any building as a dangerous or unsafe
building or a public nuisance; orders the vacation, repair or demolition of any
building; or refuses to authorize the resumption of human occupancy in any
building.
   B.   Persons Entitled To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision within
the scope of this section may appeal from such decision.
   C.   Time Of Appeal: An appeal shall be commenced within thirty five (35)
days of the date of the receipt of notice of the decision appealed from.
Appeals not commenced within such time shall be deemed waived.
   D.   Commencement Of Appeal: An appeal under this section shall be commenced
by filing with the village clerk a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The village clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board of trustees
all of the papers constituting the records upon which the decision from which
appeal has been taken was made. The notice of appeal and the appeal itself
shall be filed in such number of copies, be in such form and contain such
information as the board of trustees may provide from time to time by general
rule.
   E.   Stay Pending Appeal: An appeal shall stay any court proceedings in
furtherance of the decision appealed from and all duties imposed thereby,
unless the director certifies to the board of trustees, after the notice of
appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would, in his opinion, cause immediate hazards to human life, health or safety,
in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by order of
the court of record upon due cause shown. Any stay in effect pursuant to this
subsection shall continue until a decision on the appeal is rendered pursuant
to subsection F of this section.
   F.   Action On Appeal: The board of trustees shall select a reasonable time
and place for a public hearing on the appeal, shall give due notice thereof to
the parties having a known interest therein and shall render a written decision
without unreasonable delay. Upon the concurring vote of a majority of its
members then holding office, the board of trustees may reverse or affirm, in
whole or in part, or may modify, the decision from which the appeal was taken,
and to that end the board shall have all the powers of the director with
respect to such decision. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-15: NOTICE OF FORECLOSURE:
The village shall maintain on its website at https://www.riverwoods.gov the
address at which the village is to be mailed a notice of foreclosure by any
party who initiates, by complaint or counterclaim, a foreclosure of residential
real estate located in the village. Such party shall be obligated to send, by
first class mail, postage prepaid, a notice of foreclosure to the village
within ten (10) days after the foreclosure is initiated. The notice of
foreclosure shall comply with the requirements of 735 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/15-1503(a). Any party initiating, by complaint or counterclaim, a
foreclosure of residential real estate located in the village, who shall fail
to provide the village with the notice of foreclosure as required by the
Illinois code of civil procedure and this section shall be subject to the
penalty prescribed in section
4-7-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
4-7-16: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense in addition to any other legal or
equitable remedies available to the village. Such other remedies include, but
are not limited to, injunctive relief, application to a court of competent
jurisdiction for a receiver, demolition, or condemnation, contracting for the
repair or purchase of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the village may
have thereon.
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons shall violate the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The village may enforce this chapter in its administrative adjudication
system or through the court system.
   D.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the village from immediately
condemning a building or taking other immediate action upon a determination, as
provided for in this code or by other applicable law, that the building is a
public nuisance or poses an imminent danger to the occupants of the building,
or the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 10-12-25, 12-7-2010)
CHAPTER 8
HOBBY BEEKEEPING
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Keeping Of Bees For Hobby Purposes
4-8-4: Standards Of Practice
4-8-5: Enforcement
4-8-6: Severability
4-8-7: Conflicts
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain requirements of
sound beekeeping practices for hobby beekeeping. These practices are intended
to avoid problems that may otherwise result from the keeping of bees in
populated areas.
   B.   In addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, all
beekeepers shall maintain their bee colonies in a manner that complies with the
provisions of the Illinois bees and apiaries act, or any successor thereto, as
amended.
   C.   Notwithstanding compliance with the various requirements of this
chapter, it shall be unlawful for any beekeeper to keep any colony or colonies
in such a manner or of such disposition as to cause any unhealthy condition,
interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of human or animal life, or
interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any public property or property
of others. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
APIARY: A place where one or more bee colonies are kept.
BEE: Any stage of the common domestic honey bee, Apis mellifera species.
BEEKEEPER: A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of bees.
BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as hive
bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards and extractors.
COLONY: A hive and its equipment and appurtenances, including bees, comb,
honey, pollen and brood.
HIVE: A structure intended for the housing of a bee colony.
HOBBY BEEKEEPING: The keeping of bees subject to the restrictions set forth in
this chapter.
NUCLEUS COLONY: A small quantity of bees with a queen housed in a smaller than
usual hive box designed for a particular purpose.
TRACT: A contiguous parcel of land under common ownership. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-
2013)
4-8-3: KEEPING OF BEES FOR HOBBY PURPOSES:
No owner of any tract shall allow other persons not residing on such tract to
maintain colonies on such tract. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
4-8-4: STANDARDS OF PRACTICE:
   A.   Hives: All colonies shall be kept in inspectable type hives with
removable combs, which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
   B.   Setback And Fencing Of Flyways: Colonies shall not be located within
any required front or side yards or within ten feet (10') of the property line
of the rear yard; however colonies may be located in any side or rear yard
which adjoins the Lake County Forest Preserve. Whenever any colony is situated
such that it observes the foregoing restrictions and is nevertheless within
twenty five feet (25') of any property line (other than a property line that
adjoins Lake County Forest Preserve), as measured from the nearest point on the
hive to the property line, the beekeeper shall establish and maintain a flyway
barrier, which may consist of a solid wall, fence, dense vegetation, or
combination thereof, that completely encloses the apiary or forms an effective
barrier so that the bees are forced to fly at an elevation of at least six feet
(6') above ground level when crossing that property line to reach the hives.
Any such wall or fence shall be constructed in compliance with applicable
village ordinances.
   C.   Water: Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available at all times to the bees so that the bees will not congregate at
swimming pools, bibcocks, pet water bowls, birdbaths or other water sources
where they may cause human, bird, or domestic pet contact. The water shall be
kept circulating or changed daily and not allowed to become stagnant.
   D.   Maintenance: Each beekeeper shall ensure that no bee comb or other
materials that might encourage robbing by other bees are left upon the grounds
of the apiary site. Upon their removal from the hive, all such materials shall
promptly be disposed of in a sealed container or placed within a building or
other beeproof enclosure. Each beekeeper shall maintain the beekeeping
equipment in good condition, including securing unused equipment from weather,
potential theft or vandalism or occupancy by swarms.
   E.   Queens: In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusually aggressive
characteristics by stinging or attempting to sting without due provocation, or
exhibits an unusual disposition toward swarming, it shall be the duty of the
beekeeper to requeen the colony. Queens shall be selected from stock bred for
gentleness and nonswarming characteristics.
   F.   Nucleus Colony: For each two (2) colonies kept on a tract, there may be
maintained one nucleus colony in a hive structure not exceeding one standard
nine and five-eighths inch (95/8") depth, ten (10) frame hive body with no
supers attached as required from time to time for management of swarms. Each
such nucleus colony shall be disposed of or combined with an authorized colony
within thirty (30) days after the date it is acquired.
   G.   Colony Density: Lots having less than eighty thousand (80,000) square
feet of lot area shall not have more than two (2) colonies. Lots having eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet or more of lot area shall not have more than four
(4) colonies. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
4-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day's continued violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   B.   The village president is hereby authorized to designate a health
officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to investigate the
condition of the bees and colonies and, if necessary, to collect samples of
bees to determine if the bees are diseased or exhibit unusually aggressive
characteristics. The health officer at all reasonable times may enter in and
upon any premises to enforce the provisions of this chapter. All expenses of
the health officer will be charged to the owner of the property on which the
colonies are located, and a copy of the inspection report will be retained by
the village. If any colony is not brought into compliance with this chapter
within the fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice of violation is given
by the health officer, the village may remove or cause the removal of such
colony at the property owner's expense.
   C.   The village may pursue any and all available legal remedies to ensure
that any colony which fails to comply with this chapter or which constitutes a
danger to persons or property is brought into compliance or removed. (Ord. 13-
06-10, 6-4-2013)
4-8-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
4-8-7: CONFLICTS:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of ordinances adopted prior
hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord.
13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
CHAPTER 9
ECOLOGICAL COST SHARE PROGRAMS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Purpose
4-9-2: Definitions
4-9-3: Eligibility
4-9-4: Authorized Programs
4-9-5: General Provisions
4-9-6: Appeals
4-9-7: Severability
4-9-8: Conflicts
4-9-1: PURPOSE:
The cost share programs described in this chapter are intended to assist
residents to manage and improve the ecological health of their properties.
These programs will encourage the planting of native species of trees and
shrubs and the implementation of rain gardens as a means of capturing and
infiltrating stormwater runoff into the ground thereby reducing flows to nearby
streams and other drainageways. For properties with woodlands, savannahs,
prairies or wetlands, these programs encourage practices, such as canopy
thinning, removal of invasive shrubs and garlic mustard, native tree seeding
and planting and prescribed burning. The practices facilitated by these
programs will contribute to the restoration and preservation of the unique
ecosystems that characterized the area before farming, industry and development
caused a loss of biodiversity and impaired habitats. In the village there are
many types of wooded communities, each with specific qualities of soil, shade,
moisture, drainage, and more suited to particular species of native trees and
shrubs. The intent of these programs is to assist residents to become better
stewards of their properties by implementing specific ecological plans that
take into account the unique features of each property. The village adopts
these programs pursuant to its home rule powers. (Ord. 16-02-03, 2-2-2016)
4-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
COST SHARE PLAN: The plan prepared by the village ecologist, upon visiting a
resident's property, to assess and report on the ecological characteristics of
the resident's property. The cost share plan will include an aerial map and
written notes and findings made by the village ecologist as a result of the
assessment. The cost share plan for a particular property shall be a public
record of the village maintained in accordance with state law.
COST SHARE PRACTICES: The particular actions to be undertaken under a cost
share program pursuant to a specific cost share plan.
COST SHARE PROGRAM: One or more of the ecological cost share programs from time
to time authorized by the village board to advance the purposes of this chapter
and designed to reimburse residents, upon meeting certain objectives, for a
share of the costs of implementing such programs.
COST SHARE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS: The criteria for judging the suitability of a
property to participate in a particular cost share program, the cost share
practices that are to be undertaken to implement a particular cost share
program and the terms and conditions that must be satisfied to obtain
reimbursement for such cost share practices.
VILLAGE ECOLOGIST: One or more professional ecological consultants who are
engaged as an independent contractor by the village to serve as the village's
ecology consultant to assist in the interpretation, administration and
enforcement of this chapter, consult on ecological considerations in the
management of village owned properties, assist in the formulation, execution
and enforcement of relevant village policies, regulations, and ordinances and
perform such other duties as may be assigned by the village president. (Ord.
16-02-03, 2-2-2016)
4-9-3: ELIGIBILITY:
Any owner of residential property is eligible to apply for participation in a
cost share program upon completing the appropriate application forms supplied
by the Village and paying the requisite fees for the application and cost share
plan for such resident's property, as set forth from time to time in the annual
fee ordinance of the Village. (Ord. 16-02-03, 2-2-2016)
4-9-4: AUTHORIZED PROGRAMS:
Cost-share programs shall provide for the reimbursement of approved cost-share
practices based on the specific documentation and inspections as set forth in
the applicable cost-share program requirements and subject to the provisions of
this chapter. The Village share of reimbursement for each cost-share program
shall be fixed from time to time in a written policy by the Board of Trustees.
The ecological programs listed in this section are authorized as cost-share
programs, and the Board of Trustees from time to time may authorize additional
cost-share programs to assist residents with various aspects of managing and
enhancing the Village's natural areas.
Cost-Share Program Purpose
Cost-Share Program                 Purpose
                                   To encourage owners to remove selected
                                   canopy and subcanopy trees such as sugar
Canopy and Subcanopy Tree Thinning maple and basswood in order to reduce shade
                                   levels and competition for desirable species
                                   such as oak trees that are present on a
                                   property or that will be planted.
                                   To encourage owners to remove invasive
                                   shrubs from their property thereby improving
Invasive Shrub Removal             the ecological health by removing
                                   competition and increasing the opportunity
                                   for desirable native plants to grow and
                                   thrive.
                                   To encourage owners to remove garlic mustard
                                   from their property thereby improving the
Garlic Mustard Removal             health of the woodland understory by
                                   removing competition and increasing the
                                   opportunity for desirable native plants to
                                   grow and thrive.
                                   To encourage owners, whether they own wooded
Native Tree and Shrub Planting     property or not, to plant native trees and
                                   shrubs that will increase the native species
                                   composition in the Village.
                                   To encourage owners to install rain gardens
                                   on private property to "micro-manage"
Rain Gardens                       stormwater runoff as close to the source
                                   (like downspouts, driveways, sump pump
                                   discharges) as possible.
                                   To encourage owners to make use of
                                   prescribed burn management to improve the
Prescribed Burning                 health of a woodland or prairie by removing
                                   duff, replenishing the soil with nutrients,
                                   and by allowing desirable native plants to
                                   thrive.
                                   To encourage owners: a) to seed or plant an
                                   area with native species following garlic
                                   mustard removal or invasive shrub removal in
Native Seeding                     order to prevent the reestablishment of
                                   these invasive species and b) to seed a
                                   woodland understory, prairie, or wetland,
                                   depending on site conditions or following a
                                   prescribed burn.
 
(Ord. 17-03-05, 3-21-2017)
4-9-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Participation in a cost share plan is conditioned on the availability
of cost share program funds allocated to the programs in question by the
Village Board. If funds are not available to pay for the Village's share of
implementing cost share programs requested by applicants, the Village Board may
restrict acceptance of applications to only certain of the cost share programs.
Completed applications for each cost share program shall be considered in the
order in which received. The Village Board at any time may modify or cancel the
availability of cost share programs without liability to any unapproved
applicants. Approval of an applicant means a permit has been issued for a cost
share program. An owner may participate in more than one (1) cost-share
program; however, participation in a cost-share program may be conditioned on
satisfactory completion of another cost-share program (e.g., removal of
invasive plants may be required before native plant seeding). An owner may
participate in the same cost share program on a repeat basis when the purpose
of the particular program is served by again engaging in the actions taken in
the earlier effort (e.g., garlic mustard and buckthorn and invasive shrub
removal, canopy thinning or prescribed burning).
   B.   The Village Ecologist is directed to develop and disseminate cost share
program requirements that describe the purpose of each cost share program and
the requirements for participation and reimbursement, but such cost share
program requirements are subject to the provisions of this chapter, which shall
be controlling in the event of any conflict.
   C.   The property on which the cost share program will be implemented must
have an approved cost share plan. An applicant's participation in a cost share
program will become effective only upon issuance by the Village of a cost share
permit (which shall include a tree removal permit when canopy thinning is
allowed). Each cost share permit shall be approved by the Village President and
will include a copy of the applicable cost share program requirements. Permits
will be issued for one (1) year from the date of issuance or for the time
required to complete multi-year cost share practices. Upon receipt of a cost
share permit, the applicant is required to complete the cost share practices
within the indicated time period. The Village may revoke any cost share permit
if the applicant fails to complete the cost share practices required by the
permit or within the time period; however, permits may be extended for good
cause shown.
   D.   All cost share practices, to be reimbursable, must be undertaken only
after a cost share plan is approved by the Village Ecologist. Cost share
reimbursement will be available only if the cost share practices have been
performed by qualified contractors strictly in accordance with the approved
cost share plan and applicable cost share program requirements.
   E.   If an owner who is approved to participate in a cost share program has
satisfactorily performed all required cost share practices in strict compliance
with the cost share program in which such owner is participating, the Village
will provide the amount of reimbursement due in accordance with the cost share
permit issued to such owner. Reimbursements will be made to the owner listed in
the approved application or, on evidence accepted by the Village President, to
a subsequent owner who has completed the cost share practices begun by the
previous owner. An owner may request that the Village transfer a cost share
permit to a new owner. (Ord. 16-02-03, 2-2-2016; amd. Ord. 24-11-17, 11-19-
2024)
4-9-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision by the Village Ecologist under the
provisions of this chapter may appeal the decision to the Board of Trustees.
   B.   An appeal shall be commenced within thirty five (35) days of the date
of the receipt of notice of the decision appealed from. Appeals not commenced
within such time shall be deemed waived.
   C.   An appeal under this section shall be commenced by filing with the
Village Clerk a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The Village
Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Trustees all of the papers
constituting the records upon which the decision from which appeal has been
taken was made. The notice of appeal and the appeal shall be filed in such
number of copies, be in such form and contain such information as the Board of
Trustees may provide from time to time by general rule.
   D.   The Board of Trustees shall select a reasonable time and place for a
public hearing on the appeal, shall give due notice thereof to the parties
having a known interest therein and shall render a written decision without
unreasonable delay. Upon the concurring vote of a majority of its members then
holding office, the Board of Trustees may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify, the decision from which the appeal was taken. (Ord. 16-02-
03, 2-2-2016)
4-9-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 16-02-03, 2-2-2016)
4-9-8: CONFLICTS:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of ordinances adopted prior
hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 16-02-03, 2-2-2016)
CHAPTER 10
UNSCHEDULED STOPS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Findings; Purpose
4-10-2: Definitions
4-10-3: Unscheduled Stops Prohibited
4-10-4: Application For Unscheduled Stop
4-10-5: Conditions For Approval Of Application
4-10-6: No Assumption Of Liability
4-10-7: Penalty; Impoundment; Misdemeanor
4-10-1: FINDINGS; PURPOSE:
   The Village President and Board of Trustees find and determine that the
unscheduled, unannounced, one-way routing and dropping off of passengers in the
Village by bus or other transportation chartered services, when such passengers
arrive without pre-arranged provisions such as food, shelter, or other
resources, constitutes inhumane conditions, creates a dangerous condition for
the individuals being dropped off in the Village, and may potentially create a
nuisance and threat to public safety. The purpose of this chapter is to protect
the health and safety of the passengers disembarking from such unscheduled
stops, as well as the public health, safety, morals and welfare of the Village
and its residents.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section. Throughout this chapter, the singular shall include
the plural.
 
                             A bus or other commercial motor vehicle used for
                             the one-way transportation of ten (10) or more
                             passengers that is not providing a regularly
                             scheduled service. The following uses are excluded
                             from the definition of a chartered service: bus or
                             van service provided by a local school, park
CHARTERED SERVICE:           district, special recreational district, day camp,
                             program for seniors, or similar services related
                             to such programmatic purposes, nor shall it apply
                             to courtesy shuttles transporting customers or
                             guests to or from a fixed location as an
                             incidental service provided by a business or the
                             hosts of a private event.
                             A bus or other commercial motor vehicle operating
                             as a common carrier for passengers disembarking in
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: the Village on a predictable and recurring basis
                             following a schedule that is published in advance
                             and available to the general public and which
                             provides service in exchange for paying a fare.
                             The stopping or standing of a commercial motor
UNSCHEDULED STOP:            vehicle within the Village by a chartered service
                             for the purpose of unloading or the disembarking
                             of passengers.
 
(Ord. 24-01- 01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-3: UNSCHEDULED STOPS PROHIBITED:
   Unscheduled stops are declared to be a nuisance and are prohibited in the
Village unless a valid application for an unscheduled stop has been approved as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-4: APPLICATION FOR UNSCHEDULED STOP:
   A.   The owner, operator, or driver of any motor vehicle seeking to conduct
an unscheduled stop involving chartered services to which this chapter applies
which proposes to conduct an unscheduled stop shall file an application with
the Police Chief. The completed application shall contain all required
information set forth in Section B below and shall be submitted at least five
(5) calendar days prior to the date of the proposed disembarking date.
   B.   The Village shall prepare an application form which shall, at a
minimum, require an applicant to provide the following information:
      1.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers, including mobile
telephone numbers of the owner, operator, and driver of the motor vehicle;
      2.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers, including mobile
telephone numbers of any entity or individuals that have either directed, paid
for, or financed the transport of persons who will disembark in the Village;
      3.   The make, model, state registration/plate number, fleet number, and
vehicle identification number (VIN) of the vehicle that will be providing the
service;
      4.   The quantity of persons who are proposed to disembark in the
Village;
      5.   The name, address, or location in the Village where the applicant
proposes to allow passengers to disembark;
      6.   The full names, addresses, telephone numbers, including mobile
telephone numbers, and electronic mail addresses of all entities or individuals
who will be present to meet and receive the passengers disembarking in the
Village;
      7.   A detailed, written plan signed by the entity or individuals
agreeing to be responsible for providing the plan, identifying how the
disembarking passengers will be cared for, housed, and fed upon disembarking in
the Village;
      8.   Any additional information that the Police Chief may require;
      9.   An affirmation by the applicant that the information provided in the
application is true and correct. Such affirmation must be attested to by a
person authorized to administer oaths or witness affirmations within the state
or territory; and
      10.   An application fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or such other
amount as from time to time set forth in the village fee schedule. A separate
chartered transportation application and fee shall be required for each motor
vehicle providing the services and shall be valid only for the date, time, and
location specified on the approved application.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-5: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Application Review: Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this
chapter, the Police Chief shall undertake a review of the information contained
in the application to verify its truth and authenticity. If the application is
not complete, the Police Chief shall, in writing, advise the applicant of the
additional items needed to complete the application. Within three (3) business
days after receiving a completed application, and upon payment of all required
fees or fines due under this chapter and compliance with all other applicable
requirements of this chapter, unless the Police Chief has determined that the
applicant is disqualified as provided below, the Village shall issue an
approval of the application.
   B.   Operating Conditions: The approved application for an unscheduled stop
may include the following conditions:
      1.   No more than two (2) motor vehicles providing chartered services may
arrive within an hour of each other unless otherwise approved by the Police
Chief.
      2.   Motor vehicles making an unscheduled stop shall only stop or stand
to allow passengers to disembark within the Village between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00 a.m.) and five o’clock (5:00 p.m.), Monday through Friday, but
not on any federal, state, or Village holidays; and such motor vehicles shall
not allow passengers to disembark except within thirty (30) minutes before or
after the time designated in the approved application for the unscheduled stop.
      Each application for an unscheduled stop may contain such further
conditions and limitations as are necessary to promote safe and sound passenger
disembarkation.
   C.   Processing Applications: The Police Chief may limit the number of
applications for an unscheduled stop that are approved to two (2) on any
particular day. Applications will be processed on a first-come, first-served
basis, and the approval will be issued to the earliest filed complete and
qualifying application. Upon approval of an application, the Police Chief shall
inform the applicant that the application is approved and shall provide the
applicant, or a person designated thereby, with a telephone number to
coordinate the arrival of the motor vehicle in the Village.
   D.   Duties of the Driver: The driver of a motor vehicle conducting an
unscheduled stop must have in their possession a physical or electronic copy of
the approved application and present it for inspection at the place of
disembarkation, upon request by any employee or designee of the Village. In
addition, the driver of such motor vehicle must ensure passengers remain on the
bus until the designated Village employee or Village police officer is on site
at the designated location for disembarkation to assist in making sure
passengers will be transported to their final destination and cared for upon
disembarking in the Village. Violators will be subject to the penalty
provisions set forth in this chapter.
   E.   Appeal: If the Village denies an application made under this section,
the Police Chief shall reduce the findings to writing and transmit the same to
the applicant within five (5) calendar days. The applicant may submit a new
application or seek relief from the determination by the Police Chief by
submitting a written appeal to the mayor's office. The mayor, or the mayor's
designee, shall either grant or deny the appeal in writing within seven (7)
days of receiving the appeal.
   F.   Disqualification; Revocation. The Police Chief shall not approve an
application for any person who:
      1.   Has supplied materially false or misleading information in
connection with an application under this section.
      2.   Has failed to ensure the care, housing, transportation, or feeding
of any passengers disembarking in the Village or otherwise failed to implement
or perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved application.
   G.   Revocation of Application: The approval of an application pursuant to
this chapter may be revoked by the Police Chief upon the Police Chief's
determination that the application contains any false or misleading
information.
   H.   All actions, reviews, consents and decisions to be taken by the Police
Chief in this chapter may be taken by the Police Chief or the Police Chief's
designee.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-6: NO ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
   The Village assumes no liability for any aspect of a chartered
transportation service or for the failure or neglect of any person associated
with the operation of such service by the operator or driver.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
4-10-7: PENALTY; IMPOUNDMENT; MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation that operates a chartered
service and makes an unscheduled stop in violation of any provision of this
chapter will be fined in an amount of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per passenger
on the motor vehicle, plus any costs incurred by the Village.
   B.   Impoundment: Village police officers are hereby authorized to seize and
impound any motor vehicle that is used in the commission or furtherance of a
violation of this chapter.
   C.   Misdemeanor Offenses: In addition to the penalties set forth in
Sections
4-10-7-A and B, pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1, any person violating the
provisions of Section
4-10-5-D will also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by
incarceration upon conviction in the Village or county jail for a period not
exceeding six (6) months.
(Ord. 24-01-01, 1-16-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND ORDER
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Loitering, Police Order To Disperse
5-1A-2: Disorderly Conduct
5-1A-3: Intoxication
5-1A-4: Assault, Battery And Reckless Conduct
5-1A-5: Possession Of Cannabis
5-1A-6: Offenses Concerning Assemblies
5-1A-7: Combustible Refuse
5-1A-8: Climbing Utility And Sign Poles
5-1A-9: Obstructions
5-1A-10: Noise
5-1A-11: Interference With Police Officers; Obstructing Identification
5-1A-12: Illegal Use Of Badges, Uniforms And Police Signals
5-1A-13: Reserved
5-1A-14: Street Restoration Security Required (Rep. by Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
5-1A-15: Storage Of Nonlicensed Vehicles Or Earthmoving Equipment
5-1A-16: Prohibition Against Dog Waste
5-1A-17: Abandoned Refrigerators
5-1A-18: Drug Paraphernalia
5-1A-19: Penalty
5-1A-1: LOITERING, POLICE ORDER TO DISPERSE:
   A.   No person shall loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone
and/or in consort with others in a public place in such manner so as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tend to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon the facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress
and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   B.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in
subsection A of this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer
shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to
move on or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall
be guilty of a violation of this section. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly does any of the following
acts in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid in making a breach
of the peace:
   A.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
   B.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
   C.   Interferes by acts of violence with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation;
   D.   Befouls or disturbs public property of another so as to create a
hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition;
   E.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known to him to
be a peace officer under circumstances where persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are likely to cause
substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm;
   F.   Commits any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another person and provoke a breach of the peace;
   G.   With intent to annoy, abuse, torment, harass or embarrass another
person, makes a telephone call, whether or not conversation thereby ensues;
   H.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of the village, or fire
protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such fire
exists;
   I.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing
that such an offense had been committed;
   J.   Enters upon the property of another person and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-3: INTOXICATION:
No person in an intoxicated condition shall be on or in any street or other
public place open to the public. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-4: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A.   Assault Defined: A person commits an assault when, without lawful
authority, he or she engages in conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery Defined: A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or
knowingly without legal justification and by any means: 1) causes bodily harm
to an individual; or 2) makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking
nature with an individual.
   C.   Reckless Conduct Defined: A person who causes bodily harm to or
endangers the bodily safety of an individual by any means, commits reckless
conduct if he or she performs recklessly the acts which cause harm or endanger
safety, whether they otherwise are lawful or unlawful.
   D.   Offense: No person shall commit an assault or battery upon another
person or engage in reckless conduct in any place in the village. (Ord. 05-1-1,
1-4-2005)
5-1A-5: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Cannabis Defined: Cannabis shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act enacted by the State of Illinois as 410 ILCS
705/1, et seq., and as may be amended from time to time, and all State of
Illinois rules and regulations promulgated thereunder or related thereto. as if
that definition were incorporated herein.
   B.   Offense: It shall be unlawful for any person to grow, possess, sell,
give away, barter, deliver, exchange, distribute, or administer any marijuana
in the village, except when the growth, possession, sale, delivery or
distribution of cannabis is done so in compliance with the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or when home
cultivation of cannabis is performed pursuant to Section 10-5(b) of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/10-5(b), or when possession of
cannabis is done so in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq. Without limiting the applicability of the foregoing laws
to define offenses in the village or other provisions of this code that define
offenses involving persons under twenty-one (21) years of age, the following
acts shall constitute offenses hereunder:
      1.   No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any cannabis
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving. This prohibition does not apply to a motor vehicle open to
the public (i.e., public transportation). No person may use or in any way
ingest cannabis in a motor vehicle.
      2.   No person may smoke cannabis in any place where smoking is
prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
      3.   No person may smoke cannabis in any public space. "Public space" for
purposes of this section shall have the same meaning as defined by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, which means any place where a person could reasonably
be expected to be observed by others. "Public Space" includes all parts of
buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local
government. "Public Space" shall also include a tobacco store or cannabis
business establishment. "Public Space" does not include a private residence
unless the private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster
care or other similar social service care on the premises.
      4.   No person may smoke cannabis on the grounds of any preschool or
primary or secondary school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
(Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002; amd. Ord. 20-09-17, 9-15-2020)
5-1A-6: OFFENSES CONCERNING ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Disturbing Assemblages: No person shall disrupt or disturb any lawful
assemblage or gathering in the village by conduct, actions or behavior that is
either riotous, turbulent, disorderly, noisy, rude or indecent.
   B.   Riotous Or Noisy Assemblages: No person shall cause or participate in
any riotous, turbulent, disorderly or noisy assemblages, of persons in the
streets or other public places within the village. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-7: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE:
No person shall store or permit to be stored any combustible refuse in such a
way as to create a fire hazard, or store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
street or other public place. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-8: CLIMBING UTILITY AND SIGN POLES:
No person shall climb upon any telegraph pole, telephone pole, electric light
pole or sign pole, unless in the performance of his duties. (Ord. 259, 4-18-
1977)
5-1A-9: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Articles On Windows: No person shall place any movable article on any
window ledge, or other place abutting on a public street, or other public place
at a height above four feet (4') from the ground, in such a manner that the
same can be or is in danger of falling onto such street, sidewalk or other
public place.
   B.   Obstructing Stairways Or Exits: No person shall obstruct or permit the
obstruction of any stairway, aisle, corridor or exit in any office building,
factory, hotel, school, church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public
hall, or any building used by two (2) or more tenants or families, in such a
manner as to interfere with the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or
exit. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-10: NOISE:
No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued, any loud,
raucous or jarring noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, convenience, health, peace or safety of persons within the
area of audibility. The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be
loud, raucous or jarring noises and a nuisance in violation of this section,
but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of
the village, except as a danger warning, the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud and raucous sound; the sounding of
any such device for unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any
horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any
such signaling device where traffic is for any reason held up.
   B.   Radios, Phonographs: The playing, using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, television receiving set or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet
and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or with louder volume than is
necessary for the convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the
room, chamber, vehicle or outdoor area, within the village limits, in which or
where such machine or device is played, used or operated and who are voluntary
listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph,
machine or device between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of
fifty feet (50') from the location of such set, instrument or device shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   C.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers For Advertising: The playing, using, operating
or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets of the village for the purpose of commercial advertising or of
attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure, except
when a permit has been first procured from the village president.
   D.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on
the public streets of the village, particularly between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time or place so
as to annoy or disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of persons in
the vicinity, within the limits of the village.
   E.   Animals, Birds: The keeping of any animal or bird shut up or tied up in
any yard, enclosure, stable, house or other place within the village which, by
barking, howling, crying, singing or causing frequent or continued loud and
raucous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity.
   F.   Steam Whistles: The blowing within the limits of the village of any
steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the
time to begin or stop work; as a warning of fire, danger or other emergency, or
upon request of proper village authorities.
   G.   Engine Exhausts: The discharge into the open air within the village of
exhaust of any steam engine, gasoline engine, or other kind or type of engine,
motorboat, or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent loud, raucous or explosive noises therefrom.
   H.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use within the village of any wagon,
cart, automobile, truck, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair or loaded
in such manner or with material of such nature as to create loud and raucous
grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
   I.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes: The creation within the village of
loud and raucous noise in connection with loading or unloading of any vehicle,
or the opening or destruction of bales, boxes, crates, containers or the like,
without exercising reasonable care to limit such noise and to confine the same.
(Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
   J.   Construction, Repairing Of Buildings And Streets:
      1.   Any activity in the construction of any building or structure
(including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair), or the laying of
pavement, including, but not limited to, the making of an excavation, clearing
of surface land, and loading or unloading material, equipment or supplies,
anywhere in the village except between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on weekdays, other than Saturday, and except
between the hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on Saturday; provided that this section shall not be construed to apply to
any person doing work on premises owned by him and not for compensation. (Ord.
16-08-16, 8-16-2016)
      2.   No person shall engage in any such work or activity on a Sunday
unless a permit for such Sunday work has first been issued. Application for
such permits shall be made in writing to the village president, and shall state
the name of the applicant and his business address, the location of the
proposed work, and the reason for seeking a permit to do such work on Sunday,
as well as the estimated time of the proposed operations. No such special
permit shall be issued excepting where the public welfare will be enhanced by
such issuance, or will be harmed by failure to perform the work at the times
indicated.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any work
necessary to prevent injury to persons or property at any time.
   K.   Hawkers, Peddlers: The shouting and crying within the village of
peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
   L.   Drums: The use within the village of any drum or other instrument or
device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise, to any
place of business or entertainment or place of public assembly.
   M.   Pile Drivers, Hammers: The operation within the village between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, or
other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud and raucous noises. (Ord.
259, 4-18-1977)
   N.   Landscape Work: The use of landscaping equipment, such as lawn mowers,
soil aerator, backhoe, saws, leaf blower or power fan, whether powered by
electrical engine or internal combustion engine, anywhere in the village except
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on
weekdays, other than Saturday, and except between the hours of eight thirty
o'clock (8:30) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Saturday. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the use of landscaping equipment on golf courses is allowed
seven (7) days per week, from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise or five
o'clock (5:00) A.M., whichever is later, until seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.
or sunset, whichever is earlier. In all cases, the engine from gas powered
equipment must be equipped with a muffler device to deaden noise. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prevent any landscape work necessary to
prevent injury to persons or property at any time. This section shall not apply
to an owner performing landscaping work on such owner's premises and not for
compensation. (Ord. 16-08-16, 8-16-2016; amd. Ord. 23-07-09, 7-18-2023)
5-1A-11: INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OFFICERS; OBSTRUCTING IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Resist any officer of the police department in the discharge of his
duties;
      2.   In any way interfere with or hinder or prevent him from discharging
his duty as such officer, or offer or endeavor to do so;
      3.   In any manner assist any person in the custody of any member of the
police force to escape or attempt to escape from such custody, or attempt to
rescue any person in custody.
   B.   A person commits the offense of obstructing identification when he or
she intentionally or knowingly furnishes a false or fictitious name, residence
address, or date of birth to a police officer or other peace officer who has:
      1.   Lawfully arrested the person;
      2.   Lawfully detained the person; or
      3.   Requested the information from a person that the peace officer has
good cause to believe is a witness to a criminal offense.
Any person who intentionally or knowingly furnishes a false or fictitious name,
residence address, or date of birth to a police officer or other peace officer
when any of the foregoing enumerated conditions are satisfied shall be guilty
of a violation of this section. (Ord.
10-2-2, 2-2-2010)
5-1A-12: ILLEGAL USE OF BADGES, UNIFORMS AND POLICE SIGNALS:
No person other than a member of the police department or one authorized by the
chief of police shall use those badges and uniforms prescribed for the use of
the police department, or make use of the whistles, calls or other modes of
signaling that are used by the police department. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1A-13: RESERVED:
(Ord. 12-1-1, 1-17-2012)
5-1A-14: STREET RESTORATION SECURITY REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
5-1A-15: STORAGE OF NONLICENSED VEHICLES OR EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store upon any property in the village,
except inside a totally enclosed structure, any nonlicensed motor vehicles or
motor vehicle parts. For purposes of this section, a nonlicensed vehicle is one
that does not have a current state or village vehicle license. It shall be
unlawful for any person to store upon any property in the village any motorized
earthmoving equipment, such as backhoes, bulldozers or loading shovels, unless
such earthmoving equipment is then required for the purpose of performing work
at such property pursuant to a valid site development or building permit that
has been issued by the village. (Ord. 02-6-14, 5-21-2002)
5-1A-16: PROHIBITION AGAINST DOG WASTE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person who has in his or her
custody or control a dog to permit said dog to enter upon the premises of
another within the village without the consent of the owner or owners of said
premises; provided however, that this restriction shall not apply to premises
which had been designated and used for road purposes. No person having custody
or control of the dog shall allow said dog to be outside the premises owned or
occupied by such person without a leash.
   B.   That no owner shall permit or allow his dog to defecate upon any
premises other than those owned by the owner. That any person who shall permit
his dog to defecate upon the premises of another or upon any public or private
road, shall be responsible for immediately collecting said waste and disposing
of said waste upon his own property in a sanitary manner. That in the event
that any dog shall run free and defecate upon the premises other than those of
its owner, the owner shall be responsible for cleaning and disposing of said
waste. That in addition to the duty to collect and dispose of said such waste,
any owner who shall permit his dog to perform the acts herein prohibited, shall
also be subject to the penalties imposed by this article. The provisions of
this section requiring the collecting and disposing of waste shall not apply to
properties located in a P-2 zoning district. (Ord. 98-7-19, 7-21-1998)
5-1A-17: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
No person shall abandon or discard in any place accessible to children any
refrigerator, freezer, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of one and one-half
(1.5) cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which may be opened
or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or any person, being the owner,
lessee or manager of such place, who knowingly permits such abandoned or
discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition,
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1A-18: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions:
 
CONTROLLED     Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 102 of the Illinois Controlled
SUBSTANCE:     Substances Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR     The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of possession, with or without
DELIVERY:      consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
               All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine
               manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control and
               Community Protection Act and cannabis paraphernalia as defined in Section 1-10 of
               the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, which are intended to be used unlawfully in
               planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
               converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
               repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
               otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
               Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Methamphetamine Control and Community
               Protection Act or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the
               Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
                  1.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
               converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled substance;
                  2.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
               potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
                  3.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
               identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
DRUG           substances;
PARAPHERNALIA:    4.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting a
               controlled substance by private persons;
                  5.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
               introducing cocaine or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation of
               the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where
               applicable, the following items:
                     a.   Water pipes;
                     b.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
                     c.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
                     d.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                     e.   Carburetor pipes;
                     f.   Electric pipes;
                     g.   Air-driven pipes;
                     h.   Chillums;
                     i.   Bongs;
                     j.   Ice pipes or chillers;
                  6.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for use
               in violation of this section.
 
   B.   Unlawful Possession: A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug
paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of an offense for which a maximum
fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be imposed. In determining
intent under this subsection, the court may take into consideration the
proximity of the controlled substances to drug paraphernalia or the presence of
a controlled substance on the drug paraphernalia. This subsection B does not
apply to a person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
   C.   Sale Or Delivery; Public Nuisance:
      1.   Any person who keeps for sale, offers for sale, sells, or delivers
for any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia commits an
offense for which a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each such item shall be imposed. Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older
who sells or delivers for any commercial consideration any item of drug
paraphernalia to a person under eighteen (18) years of age is guilty of an
offense for which a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each item shall be imposed.
      2.   Any person who sells or delivers for a commercial consideration any
item of drug paraphernalia to a woman he or she knows to be pregnant is guilty
of an offense for which a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
shall be imposed.
      3.   Any store, place or premises from which or in which any item of drug
paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered for any
commercial consideration is declared to be a public nuisance, except when such
sale is done in compliance with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq. It shall be unlawful for any retail
establishment or similar use, even when licensed by the State of the Illinois
under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act 410 ILCS 705/1-1 et. seq., to sell
drug paraphernalia at retail in the village.
      4.   The village may commence an action in the circuit court to abate the
public nuisance as described in this subsection C. Upon being satisfied by
affidavits or other sworn evidence that an alleged nuisance exists, the court
may, without bond, enter a temporary restraining order to enjoin any defendant
from maintaining the nuisance and may, without bond, enter a preliminary
injunction restraining any defendant from removing or interfering with any
property used in connection with the public nuisance.
   D.   Common Exemptions: The following items shall not be considered to be
items of drug paraphernalia:
      1.   Items marked for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
      2.   Items marked for, or historically and customarily used in connection
with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
      3.   Items exempt under this subsection include, but are not limited to:
garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling
papers.
      4.   Items listed in the definition of "drug paraphernalia" in subsection
A of this section that are marketed for decorative purposes, when such items
have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any
illicit purpose prohibited by this section.
      5.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
      6.   Items that would otherwise constitute drug paraphernalia shall not
be considered drug paraphernalia, if the possession, sale, delivery, or
distribution thereof is done in compliance with the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq. or the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.
   E.   Other Exemptions: In determining whether or not a particular item shall
not be considered an item of drug paraphernalia for purposes of this section,
the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device
upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising, concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed
for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 02-12-30, 12-3-2002; amd. Ord. 20-09-17, 9-15-2020)
5-1A-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002; amd. Ord.
02-12-30, 12-3-2002)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Gambling
5-1B-2: Coin Operated Amusement Devices
5-1B-3: Indecent Conduct, Exposure
5-1B-4: Obscene Material Or Performance
5-1B-5: Penalty
5-1B-1: GAMBLING:
   A.   No person shall gamble or commit any act constituting gambling as the
same is defined by state statutes 1 .
   B.   No person shall possess any gambling device or paraphernalia with the
intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose; and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by any member of the
police department.
   C.   No person shall maintain or patronize any establishment maintained for
a gambling house or resort.
   D.   No person shall advertise any gambling house or gambling resort in any
street, alley or other public place within the village. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
   E.   No terminal operator shall operate or permit the operation of a video
gaming terminal in a licensed establishment within the corporate limits of the
Village without possessing a valid, unexpired license terminal operator license
and a separate license for each video gaming terminal. For purposes of this
subsection, the terms "licensed establishment", "terminal operator" and "video
gaming terminal" shall have their respective meanings as set forth in the Video
Gaming Act of the State of Illinois. The terminal operator shall comply with
all provisions governing such licenses as applicable pursuant to the provisions
of this code. (Ord. 09-10-20, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 21-11-21, 11-2-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
5-1B-2: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall maintain for the use of the public or patrons, or
permit the use in or on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail is permitted or in any store, restaurant, shopping place, theater,
parking lot or any other public place in the village:
      1.   Any mechanical pinball amusement device which is so constructed that
the result of its operation depends upon chance, or upon the skill of the
operator, or upon both; or
      2.   Any mechanical device which in its operation shoots or propels an
electric light, ray or impulse to a target; or
      3.   Any table bowling, shuffleboard or other mechanical table game or
amusement device involving the propulsion of spheres or other projectiles,
mechanically or by hand; or
      4.   Any coin operated or coin in the slot table amusement device or
game.
   B.   This section shall not apply to bona fide clubs licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor to only members and their guests as provided by law. (Ord.
259, 4-18-1977)
5-1B-3: INDECENT CONDUCT, EXPOSURE:
   A.   No person shall in any manner expose the male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks in any public place within the village.
   B.   No person shall in the presence or hearing of another person curse or
abuse such person or use obscene or indecent language to such person concerning
himself under circumstance reasonably calculated to provoke a breach of the
peace in any street or in any other place open to the public in the village.
   C.   No person shall bathe in a nude condition in any public place or in any
place open to the public view. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1B-4: OBSCENE MATERIAL OR PERFORMANCE:
   A.   No person shall show, exhibit, sell, offer for sale, distribute,
circulate, give away or cause the same to be done to any person any obscene
material or performance as described, defined and set forth in subsections B
and C of this section.
   B.   Any material or performance is "obscene" if, when considered as a whole
and judged with reference to average or ordinary persons (includes average or
ordinary minors under the age of 18 years or average or ordinary adults), any
of the following apply:
      1.   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest in sex or obscenity;
      2.   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by patent offensive
displaying of or depicting nudity, sexual excitement or sexual conduct in a way
which tends to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite;
      3.   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by patent offensive
displaying or depicting bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or
brutality;
      4.   It contains a series of patently offensive displays or descriptions
of nudity, sexual excitement, sexual conduct, bestiality, extreme or bizarre
violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of elimination, the
cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to prurient
interest in sex or obscenity, when the appeal to such interest is primarily for
its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than for a serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
      5.   "Nudity" means the patent offensive showing, representation,
depiction or lewd exhibition of human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks.
      6.   "Sexual excitement" means the condition of human male or female
genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      7.   "Sexual conduct" means the patently offensive representations or
descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
and of masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals.
      8.   "Material" means any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or
written material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other
pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other
articles, equipment, machines or materials.
      9.   "Performance" means any motion picture, preview, play, show, skit,
dance or other exhibition performed before an audience in any indoor or outdoor
theater, building or any public place.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, all three (3) of the following
conditions are required to prove obscenity affecting the average or ordinary
minor under the age of eighteen (18) years or affecting the average or ordinary
adult:
      1.   The material or performance taken as a whole predominantly appeals
to a prurient interest in obscenity or sex;
      2.   The material or performance is patently offensive because it
affronts the prevailing contemporary community standards as a whole relating to
the description or representation of obscene or sexual matters; and
      3.   The material or performance as a whole lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall be subject to the affirmative
defenses as specifically set forth in state statutes. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1B-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Advertisements
5-1C-2: Trespasses
5-1C-3: Damaging or Removing Village Property; Use of Village Fire Hydrants
5-1C-4: Injuring or Destroying Property
5-1C-5: Satellite Dish Antenna
5-1C-6: Penalty
5-1C-1: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Defacing Legal Advertisement or Notice Prohibited: No person shall
injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice.
   B.   Posting Bill or Advertisement: No person shall post any bill or
advertisement on any property without the written consent of the owner thereof
1 . (Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 3 of Title 4 of this Code.
5-1C-2: TRESPASSES:
   A.   General: No person shall, without authority of law, go upon or remain
upon the lands or premises (public or private) of another, after having been
forbidden to do so by the owner, lessee, custodian or other person lawfully in
charge or possession of such land or premises.
   B.   Specific Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting any limitation
upon the provisions of subsection A, any of the following acts by any person
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of subsection A, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder
at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation of the
provisions of this Article, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows:
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry to in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
5-1C-3: DAMAGING OR REMOVING VILLAGE PROPERTY; USE OF VILLAGE FIRE HYDRANTS:
No person shall damage, destroy, deface, remove and/or carry away property
belonging to the Village. No person shall open Village fire hydrants, unless
such use is required to respond to a fire emergency. The violator shall be
liable to the Village for the replacement or repair of the property affected in
addition to the penalty provided for in Section
5-1C-6. (Ord. 93-8-20, 8-17-93)
5-1C-4: INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface, injure or
destroy any property within the Village, whether such property is owned by the
State, County, Village or any other government body, or owned by any private
person. (Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
5-1C-5: SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA:
   A.   General Requirements: No person may erect a satellite dish antenna
within the corporate limits of the village without a permit. Said satellite
antenna may not be installed in any required yard nor between a road and a
principal building on the site, except as hereinafter permitted. Said satellite
antennas are to be of the open mesh type, except that units two feet (2') or
less in diameter may be solid.
   B.   Color: Satellite antennas shall be colored to make them compatible with
their surroundings. Said color may be black or another dark color to be
approved by the building officer at the time a permit is issued and may not be
changed without a subsequent permit.
   C.   Wind Load: Every application for a satellite dish antenna shall be
accompanied by documentation indicating that the foundation, if set in the
ground, or the attachment, if attached to a building, shall be designed to
withstand a one hundred twenty (120) mile per hour wind. Said application shall
be accompanied by a statement of a licensed structural engineer or licensed
architect that he has computed the foundation or the attachment design based on
these criteria and that in his professional opinion the design is adequate to
withstand the wind load in a safe manner. If the antenna is mounted to a
building, such statement will be provided indicating that the building
components are capable of withstanding the load anticipated by the specified
wind loading without damage to the structure.
   D.   Mounting On Buildings Or Structures: Antenna dishes of over two feet
(2') in diameter may be mounted on a building or structure only if the
structure has been determined by a licensed engineer or licensed architect to
be capable of supporting the antenna safely and it has been determined by the
building officer that there is no other acceptable location on the property for
the antenna.
   E.   Drawings Indicating Location Required: Each application shall be
accompanied by drawings to scale to show the distance from the property lines
and buildings to accurately identify the proposed location of the antenna. Such
drawings shall show the details of the foundation or method of attachment so as
to permit reasonable review of the request.
   F.   Special Use Requirements: Notwithstanding the location requirements of
this section a satellite antenna dish may be installed in a required yard
including a front yard upon application for special use to the building
officer. Such application must show either that no other location on the site
exists or that any location other than that sought would require cutting down
trees or locating the antenna in a significantly more obvious location. Prior
to the issuance of the special use permit, the building officer will inform any
neighbors with property within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed location
and allow such neighbors to be heard if they wish. The building officer will
also inform the village board of said application so that the village board may
object to such issuance prior to the issuance of the permit. At least two (2)
weeks must elapse between the notification to neighbors and the issuance of
said permit. If an objection is made in writing by a neighbor within one
hundred feet (100'), the matter will be referred to the zoning board of appeals
which shall conduct a public hearing pursuant to notice and make its
recommendation to the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 87-12-23, 12-15-
1987)
5-1C-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES CONCERNING ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Hunting And Trapping
5-1D-2: Cruelty To Animals
5-1D-3: Animal Control Ordinance; Definitions
5-1D-4: Certain Offenses Concerning Dogs And Cats
5-1D-5: Dangerous Or Diseased Animals
5-1D-6: Rabies Control
5-1D-7: Impoundment Procedures Concerning Dogs And Cats Found Running At Large
5-1D-8: Restrictions On Keeping Animal-Aggressive Dogs
5-1D-9: Dangerous Dogs
5-1D-10: Vicious Dogs
5-1D-11: Exception To Humane Destruction
5-1D-12: Penalty
5-1D-1: HUNTING AND TRAPPING:
   A.   Hunting Prohibited: No person shall hunt or engage in killing any
animal other than as prescribed by law or ordinance in the village. (Ord. 259,
4-18-1977)
   B.   No Unlawful Trapping: Except as permitted by state law, no person shall
set traps of any kind or attempt to trap any animals, wild or domestic, within
the boundaries of the village; provided, however, that the trapping of rodents
within or about residences and other buildings within the village is excepted.
(Ord. 01-6-21, 6-19-2001)
   C.   Certain Protected Birds: No person shall kill or wound, or attempt to
kill or wound, by the use of firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow, pelting with
stones or otherwise, any quail, pheasant, robin, blue jay or other song,
plumage or game bird, or shoot an arrow or throw a stone, club or other
missile, at any of the above named birds within any private ground, public
park, street or grounds, or take or destroy the eggs or young of any such bird
or birds within any private enclosure or public ground. (Ord. 97-11-19, 11-18-
1997)
   D.   Exemption To Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not apply
to any peace officer engaged in the discharge of their official duties, nor to
any persons lawfully appointed by the corporate authorities of this village to
eliminate hazards to the public health and welfare. The appointment of such
persons for the purpose of eliminating hazards to the public health and welfare
shall be made pursuant to the procedures set forth in subsection
5-1E-1B5 of this chapter. (Ord. 27, 3-3-1962; amd. Ord. 97-11-19, 11-18-1997)
   E.   Traps Confiscated By Village: In addition to all other penalties, traps
and weapons used in violation of this article shall be forfeited to and
confiscated by the village. (Ord. 27, 3-3-1962)
   F.   Notification: Any owner or tenant of land in the village who authorizes
a licensed trapper to trap animals on such owner's or tenant's land by use of
foothold or leghold traps shall observe the following:
      1.   Prior to authorizing the setting of any traps, the owner or tenant
shall request the village clerk to post notice of the name, address, telephone
number and paging number of the trapper at the village hall and shall mail
notice of the same to all owners of property within five hundred feet (500') of
the lot on which the traps are to be set. The telephone number given shall be
connected to a telephone answering service or emergency paging service
operating at all times that the traps are set. The owner or tenant is
responsible for ensuring that the trapper is available to retrieve any animal
trapped with a leghold or foothold trap within one hour after the animal is
trapped. The mailed notice shall be addressed to "Resident" at the property
address of each affected property and shall be in the following form:
   WARNING
The owner or tenant of the property commonly known as                    
[insert address here] has authorized a licensed trapper to set foothold or
leghold traps on such property for the purpose of trapping                    
[insert type of wildlife to be trapped]. The traps might not be visible.
Children and pets risk serious injury if they are caught in the traps. It is
important that you exercise proper supervision of your children and pets to
avoid injury.
The name and address of the trapper and a telephone and paging number where the
trapper can be reached if there is an emergency are as follows:
Telephone:                       Paging:     
2. When any leghold or foothold traps are used on such owner's or tenant's lot,
the owner or tenant shall cause an orange colored pole to be planted in the
ground next to such traps, with the visible portion of the pole set at least
four feet (4') in height above the ground. (Ord. 01-6-21, 6-19-2001)
G. Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided
for in a specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's
continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1D-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Owner Defined: For purposes of this section, the term "owner" means any
person who: 1) has a right of property in an animal, 2) keeps or harbors an
animal, 3) has an animal in his care, or 4) acts as a custodian of an animal.
   B.   Owner's Duties: No owner shall fail to provide for each of his animals:
1) sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water; 2) adequate
shelter and protection from the weather; 3) veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering; and 4) humane care and treatment. No person or owner shall
beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overload, overwork or otherwise abuse any
animal or cause or permit any dogfight or other combat between animals or
between animals and humans.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each and every day such violation continues. (Ord. 02-10-27, 10-
15-2002)
5-1D-3: ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE; DEFINITIONS:
The provisions of Title 5, Chapter 1, Article D of this Code shall be known,
cited and referred to as the “Riverwoods Animal Control Ordinance.” This
chapter is adopted pursuant to the home rule powers of the Village of
Riverwoods. All references in this chapter to the village or the police
department refer respectively to the Village of Riverwoods and the Riverwoods
Police Department. Where used in this Article, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:
ANIMAL
CONTROL     Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as amended.
ACT:
ANIMAL      Any facility approved by the chief of police for the purpose of enforcing this
CONTROL     section or the Animal Control Act, and used as a shelter for seized, stray,
CENTER:     homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other animals.
ANIMAL-     A dog that has been determined by the health officer to be an animal-aggressive
AGGRESSIVE  dog in accordance with the requirements of the Lake County ACC.
DOG:
            To inflict or attempt to inflict bodily harm to a person or a companion animal,
            to chase, pursue or to engage in other behavior that would cause a reasonable
ATTACK:     person to be fearful of bodily harm. An attack which involves multiple person(s)
            and/or companion animal(s) during the same incident or event shall be deemed one
            (1) attack for purposes of this division.
CHIEF OF    The chief of police of the police department.
POLICE:
COMPANION   A dog, cat or other animal owned by a person for companionship or amusement.
ANIMAL:
CONFINED:   Restriction of a dog at all times by the owner, or his agent, within an escape-
            proof enclosure away from other animals and the public.
            (i) Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner or
            custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner or
DANGEROUS   custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses
DOG:        a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to
            a person or a companion animal or (ii) a dog that, without justification, bites
            a person and does not cause serious physical injury.
            A fence or structure of at least six (6) feet in height, forming or causing an
            enclosure that locks securely and is suitable to prevent the entry of young
            children, and suitable to confine a dangerous or vicious dog in conjunction with
            other measures that may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of
            the dangerous or vicious dog within the enclosure. An enclosure must be securely
ENCLOSURE:  enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top, and bottom and designed
            to prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure and must have secure
            sides that prevent the dog from extending any portion of its body through any
            part of the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room within a residence, the door
            must be locked. An enclosure must be labeled with a prominently displayed
            warning sign at each entrance that indicates that a dangerous or vicious dog is
            confined within.
HEALTH      The health officer or designee acting as such under the Lake County ACC.
OFFICER:
HEARING     The individual(s) appointed as a hearing officer in the village’s Administrative
OFFICER:    Hearing System pursuant to chapter 14 of Title 1 of the Riverwoods village Code.
IMPOUNDMENT To be taken into the custody of a law enforcement officer or a public animal
OR          control facility serving the village.
IMPOUNDED:
LAKE COUNTY The Animal Care and Control Ordinance of Lake County, Illinois.
ACC:
            A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the collar or
LEASH:      harness of a dog and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog under
            control.
            An identifying device consisting of a microchip or similar device that is
            humanely and permanently installed in or injected under the skin of an animal by
MICROCHIP:  a licensed veterinarian and is designed so that it provides, when scanned by an
            electronic reader, readable information as determined by the chief of police to
            allow, at a minimum, for the identification of the animal and the name, address,
            and telephone number of the owner.
OWNER:      Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having the care or custody of an
            animal.
PHYSICAL    The impairment of physical condition.
INJURY:
POLICE DOG: Any dog professionally trained dog for law enforcement duties owned or used by
            the police department in the course of its work.
RUNNING AT  Any dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large when it is off the
LARGE:      premises of its owner and not within an enclosed vehicle or under adequate
            restraint of a competent person by means of a leash.
SERIOUS     A physical injury that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death,
PHYSICAL    serious or protracted disfigurement, protracted impairment of health, impairment
INJURY:     of the function of any bodily organ, or plastic surgery.
            Any guide dog, signal dog, or other dog trained to do work or perform tasks for
SERVICE     the benefit of an individual with a disability, including, without limitation,
DOG:        guiding individuals with impaired vision, alerting individuals with impaired
            hearing to sounds, and pulling a wheelchair or fetching dropped items for
            individuals with mobility impairments.
            A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes serious physical
VICIOUS     injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to be a “dangerous
DOG:        dog” upon two (2) separate occasions, within any twenty-four (24) month period,
            but only after an administrative hearing. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
 
5-1D-4: CERTAIN OFFENSES CONCERNING DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit any dog or cat owned or kept by him to
run at large within the limits of the village.
   B.   No person shall knowingly or recklessly permit any dangerous dog or
vicious dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by leash
or other recognized control methods. Any person not the owner committing this
offense shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
   C.   No person shall permit any dog to habitually snap, growl, snarl, jump
upon or otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common thoroughfare,
sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park, or any place where people
congregate or walk.
   D.   No person other than a police officer, animal warden, or other person
charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall remove a license tag from
any dog without the owner’s consent.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to have in his immediate
possession some means for the removal of animal excrement when causing a dog or
other animal to be on the public right-of-way or private street easement, or on
any property under the ownership or control of the village, or on any other
private property without the express consent of the owner or lawful occupant of
the property.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to remove any excrement of
a dog or other animal under that person’s control from any public right-of-way
or private street easement, or from any property under the ownership or control
of the village, or from any other private property without the express consent
of the owner or lawful occupant of the property. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-5: DANGEROUS OR DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to
run at large within the village; exhibitions or parades of animals which are
ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the chief of police. No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or
other animal within the village when the same would constitute a violation of
the Animal Control Act or the Lake County ACC or any lawful regulations
promulgated thereunder from time to time. The members of the police department
or any other person in the village are authorized to kill any dangerous animal
of any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
   B.   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased
animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except
under the provisions of the health officer. The health officer shall be
requested to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment
of affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or
infection, except in cases where only the State Veterinarian is empowered to
act. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-6: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Every owner of a dog or cat four (4) months of age or older, on a
yearly basis, shall cause said dog or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian for a one (1) year period of immunity; provided, that if
the dog or cat is over twelve (12) months of age, the owner may cause said dog
or cat to be inoculated for a three (3) year period of immunity with vaccines
recognized by the State of Illinois, Department of Agriculture, for a three (3)
year period of immunity, in which case the interval between inoculations may be
extended to three (3) years. Every owner of a dog or cat, four (4) months of
age or older, shall provide the dog or cat with a collar or harness and attach
thereto the official Lake County rabies tag, showing the inoculation to be
current, which shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times.
   B.   Every dog or cat which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
police department and, if required at the direction of the health official,
shall be securely quarantined in a veterinary hospital for a period of ten (10)
days. The owner, upon demand made by any police officer, shall forthwith
surrender any animal which has bitten a person or which is suspected of having
been exposed to rabies for a supervised quarantine, the expense of which shall
be borne by the owner. It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog
or cat which has bitten a person, or which is suspected of having rabies, upon
demand of any police officer of the village to refuse to immediately deliver
such dog or cat to such officer. The police department, upon receipt of any
such notification or report of dog or cat bites, or symptoms indicative of
rabies, shall immediately notify the health official and shall, in cooperation
with said official, determine so far as possible the identities of all persons
known or suspected to have been bitten by, handled or come in contact with such
dog or cat, so that such persons or their parents or guardians may be given
such warnings as may appear advisable. The owner or keeper of such dog or cat
shall be liable for all veterinarian and laboratory fees incurred pursuant to
the provisions of this section. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-7: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES CONCERNING DOGS AND CATS FOUND RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Dogs or cats found running at large or found abandoned shall be taken
up by the police department and placed for impoundment. The Police Officer
impounding shall make a record of the same entering the breed, color and sex
and whether licensed or not and the name and address of the owner or keeper, if
known, and maintain the information at a central location within the police
department. Such dogs or cats so impounded will be confined in a humane manner
until either claimed by their owners or until at least five (5) days shall have
elapsed and may thereafter be disposed of in a humane manner if after such 5-
day period they have not yet been claimed by their owners. Dogs and cats not
claimed by their owners shall be humanely disposed of except as hereinafter
provided in the cases of certain animals.
      B.   1.   Immediately upon impoundment of dogs or cats, the police
department shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owners of such dogs
and cats impounded, including mailing a notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, and inform such owners of the manner whereby they may
regain custody of such animals.
      2.   Any dog or cat so impounded may be redeemed by the owner or keeper
thereof by the payment of any impounding fees plus any fines, provided that if
the owner or keeper of the dog or cat is a resident of the village, such dog or
cat shall not be released unless and until such dog or cat shall have been
vaccinated, registered with Lake County and any applicable license fees paid.
      3.   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, no dog or
cat suspected of having rabies shall be released within less than ten (10) days
following its impounding.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the police department to keep, or cause to be
kept, accurate records of all impoundments and other dispositions of all dogs
or cats coming into their custody. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-8: RESTRICTIONS ON KEEPING ANIMAL-AGGRESSIVE DOGS:
No person shall harbor or keep an Animal-Aggressive Dog within the village
except upon compliance with each and all of the restrictions as may be ordered
by the health officer pursuant to the Lake County ACC. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-
2022)
5-1D-9: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   After a dog attack, the village president may refer the matter to the
health official or may direct the police department, in conjunction with its
designee, to investigate whether there is reason to believe that the dog is a
dangerous dog, to prepare a report and forward the report to the chief of
police or designee. During the investigatory stage of the attack and pendency
of the case:
      1.   The owner shall provide proof of inoculation against rabies.
      2.   The village or its designee may require that the dog be confined.
The dog may be allowed out of confinement provided that the dog is restrained
with a leash not exceeding six (6) feet in length and muzzled, but the muzzling
shall not injure the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, and the
dog is taken out of confinement under the direct control and supervision of the
owner or keeper of the dog, during the following circumstances only: (i) if it
is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the dog;
(ii) in the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog’s life is
threatened; or (iii) to comply with the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      3.   If the owner relocates the dog to a site other than the owner’s
residence, the owner shall notify the village or its designee of the location
of the dog and the measures taken confirming that the dog is confined.
      4.   After a preliminary investigation, if there is probable cause that
the conduct of the dog was not justified and if deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public, the village or
its designee may impound the dog and may seek reimbursement from the owner for
the cost and expense of impoundment.
      5.   In the event that proof of inoculation against rabies for the dog is
not provided, the village or its designee may coordinate the observation period
with the heath official.
   B.   Upon completion of the report(s) of the attack, if the chief of police
or designee or has no reason to believe that the dog is a dangerous dog and the
dog was ordered to be confined or was impounded, the restrictions placed on the
dog during the investigatory stage of the attack shall be lifted and the owner
notified. If the chief of police or designee has reason to believe that an
individual dog is a dangerous dog, the chief of police or designee shall issue
notice to the dog’s owner that an administrative hearing will be held to
ascertain whether the dog in question is a dangerous dog. Unless lifted,
restrictions placed on the dog during the investigatory stage of the attack
shall remain. Notice to an adult co-owner of a dog shall be sufficient notice
to all other co-owners of the dog. The notice shall be given at least seven (7)
days prior to the hearing. The notice may be given by first class mail
addressed to the residence of the owner. If the owner cannot be identified
after reasonable inquiry, notice may be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation or by posting a copy thereof on an entrance to the
residence of the owner or the location where the dog is being kept. The notice
shall contain the date, time and place of hearing, a description of the dog,
and shall also generally describe the conduct of the dog that constitutes the
basis of the investigation. If the owner provides proof of euthanization of the
dog prior to the administrative hearing, the findings by the hearing officer
shall indicate euthanization prior to the administrative hearing without a
determination of whether the dog was dangerous.
   C.   At the administrative hearing, the village representative may interview
any witnesses, including the owner, provide relevant information and submit any
existing medical records, veterinary medical records or behavioral evidence.
The owner shall also be permitted to interview witnesses, provide relevant
information and present proof that the conduct of the dog was justified,
including but not limited to those affirmative defenses set forth in subsection
D below. Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified
veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to
determine whether the dog’s behavior was justified. Hearsay shall be
admissible.
   D.   After the administrative hearing, if there is clear and convincing
evidence, the hearing officer may find that the dog is a dangerous dog. The
hearing officer may also decline to find the dog dangerous if the conduct of
the dog was justified because:
      1.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog; or
      2.   The injured, threatened, or killed person or companion animal was
tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or its
offspring, or has in the past tormented, abused, assaulted, or physically
threatened the dog or its offspring; or
      3.   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or offspring; or
      4.   If it is a police dog or a service dog, provided an attack or injury
to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected; or
      5.   For other reasons as specified by the hearing officer.
The hearing officer shall issue an order to that effect that sets forth the
basis for such determination and serve a copy thereof upon the owner. The order
shall also reasonably inform the owner of the right to seek judicial review of
the order.
   E.   If a dog is determined to be dangerous, the following restrictions
shall apply to the keeping of the dog in the village:
      1.   Use of leash and muzzle mandatory. The dog when on public premises
or shared street easements must be directly controlled and supervised by an
adult at least 18 years of age. Such control and supervision shall require, at
a minimum that the dog be: (a) restrained on a non-retractable leash no longer
than six feet; and (b) securely muzzled in a manner that will prevent it from
biting any person or animal, but that will not injure the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration.
      2.   Liability Insurance. The owner of the dangerous dog must obtain and
maintain, and provide the village with satisfactory evidence of, liability
insurance coverage, in the amount of at least $100,000.00, which coverage
includes without limitation coverage for animal bites. In lieu of liability
insurance, the owner of a dangerous dog may obtain a surety bond in the value
of at least $100,000.00.
      3.   Required signage. Any person who keeps or maintains any dog which
has been found to be a dangerous dog must display in a prominent place on the
premises where the dangerous dog is confined, and at each entrance to any
outdoor enclosure where the dog is kept, clearly visible signage stating that a
dangerous dog is kept on the premises. Each such sign shall be a noncombustible
material, weather resistant and one (1) foot by one (1) foot in size with text
not less than one (1) inch in height. The text of such sign shall read:
WARNING: DANGEROUS DOG KEPT ON THE PREMISES
   F.   In addition to the requirements to keeping a dangerous dog as set forth
in subsection E above, the hearing officer may order one or more of the
following as the hearing officer deems appropriate under the circumstances and
necessary for the protection of the public:
      1.   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this subsection.
      2.   The dog shall be spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of the
finding at the expense of its owner.
      3.   Microchipped, if not already. If the dog is currently micro chipped,
proof of such must be filed with the village or its designee.
      4.   The dog shall be subject to enclosure during those times that the
dog is not in the immediate control of its owner and outside of the owner’s
residence.
      5.   A fine may be imposed in accordance with this chapter.
      6.   Reimbursement of the victim for expenses incurred as a result of the
attack.
      7.   In the event the owner does not comply by a date certain, the
hearing officer may order the owner to turn over custody of the dog to the
animal control center to be held by the animal control center at the owner’s
cost and expense.
      8.   The owner is prohibited from selling or giving away or otherwise
placing a dangerous dog in the permanent possession of any other person,
including without limitation any animal shelter, without first notifying that
person that the dog has been designated a dangerous dog pursuant to this
chapter and notifying the jurisdiction to which the dog will be transferred of
the dog’s designation as a dangerous dog.
A determination by the hearing officer that a dog is a dangerous dog
constitutes a final administrative decision for the purposes of judicial review
thereof in accordance with law. Upon filing a notice of appeal, the hearing
officer’s order declaring the dog to be a dangerous dog may be stayed in whole
or in part by a court of competent jurisdiction. Until the order has been
reviewed, and at all times during the appeal process, the owner shall comply
with the requirements as set forth herein. The owner of the dog shall be
responsible for all fees associated with the appeal and/or holding of the dog
while the appeal takes place.
   G.   Failure to Comply with Conditions. No person shall keep or maintain a
dangerous dog within the corporate limits of the village unless the dog is kept
and maintained in compliance with this chapter and each of the conditions of
any order entered by the heath official, a court of competent jurisdiction or
the hearing officer, as applicable. Any dangerous dog that is not kept and
maintained as so provided is declared hereby to be a public nuisance and may be
apprehended and impounded upon the order of the chief of police. The
impoundment may, at the discretion of the chief of police, continue through any
subsequent investigation of the police department and any subsequent
determination of the hearing officer or the court. If it is not possible to
secure compliance with the foregoing conditions, the hearing officer may, in
addition to requiring payment of penalties provided by this chapter, order that
the dangerous dog be permanently removed form the corporate limits of the
village within 14 days, with the owner of the dog being responsible for all
fees and costs incurred by the village in caring for the dangerous dog prior to
such removal. If the hearing officer or the court orders the permanent removal
of the dangerous dog pursuant, the owner must, within 14 days of the order to
remove the dog from the corporate limits of the village, provide written
evidence to the village that the owner has informed the person(s) to whom the
dog has been relocated of the dog’s designation as a dangerous dog under this
chapter and that those person(s) have consented to the shelter and care of the
dog, and has informed the animal control authority in the jurisdiction to which
the animal is being relocated of the dog’s designation as a dangerous dog under
this chapter and the animal control authority has consented to the relocation.
If the owner is unable to comply with these conditions, the hearing officer may
order that the dangerous dog be humanely destroyed, subject to the provisions
of section
5-1D-11 below.
      H.   Dogs designated as dangerous in other jurisdictions. Any person
desiring to bring a dog to live in the village that has been previously
declared within another jurisdiction to have behaved in a dangerous manner or a
similar manner or has been designated within another jurisdiction as a
dangerous dog or any similar designation, must notify the police department
prior to moving the dog into the village of such declaration or designation.
Upon moving the dog into the village, the dog will be considered as a dangerous
dog pursuant to this chapter, and the owner must comply at all times with each
and every requirement and restriction established in this chapter pertaining to
dangerous dogs.
      I.   Removal of dangerous dog designation in certain cases. The owner of
a dog which has been declared to be dangerous in a case which did not involve
the biting or injury to a person or a companion animal may file a written
request with the village or its designee to remove the dangerous dog
designation twenty-four (24) months after the dangerous dog declaration was
issued. Upon the receipt of such a written request, the village or its designee
shall remove the dangerous dog designation for a dog found to be dangerous in a
case which did not involve the biting or injury to a person or a companion
animal if there have been no other violations of this chapter or other animal
control regulations with respect to such dog and the owner of such dog since
the date of designation as a dangerous dog. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-10: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   After a dog attack, the village president may refer the matter to the
health official or may direct the police department, in conjunction with its
designee, to investigate whether there is reason to believe that the dog is a
vicious dog, to prepare a report and forward the report to the chief of police
or designee. During the investigatory stage of the attack and pendency of the
case:
      1.   The owner shall provide proof of inoculation against rabies.
      2.   The village or its designee may require that the dog be confined.
The dog may be allowed out of confinement provided that the dog is restrained
with a leash not exceeding six (6) feet in length and muzzled, but the muzzling
shall not injure the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, and the
dog is taken out of confinement under the direct control and supervision of the
owner or keeper of the dog, during the following circumstances only: (i) if it
is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the dog;
(ii) in the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog’s life is
threatened; or (iii) to comply with the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      3.   If the owner relocates the dog to a site other than the owner’s
residence, the owner shall notify the village or its designee of the location
of the dog and the measures taken confirming that the dog is confined.
      4.   After a preliminary investigation, if there is probable cause that
the conduct of the dog was not justified and if deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public, the village or
its designee may impound the dog and may seek reimbursement from the owner for
the cost and expense of impoundment.
      5.   In the event that proof of inoculation against rabies for the dog is
not provided, the village or its designee may coordinate the observation period
with the heath official.
   B.   Upon completion of the report(s) of the attack, if the chief of police
or designee has no reason to believe that the dog is a vicious dog and the dog
was ordered to be confined or was impounded, the restrictions placed on the dog
during the investigatory stage of the attack shall be lifted and the owner
notified. If the chief of police or designee has reason to believe that an
individual dog is a vicious dog, the chief of police or designee shall issue
notice to the dog’s owner that an administrative hearing will be held to
ascertain whether the dog in question is a vicious dog. Unless lifted,
restrictions placed on the dog during the investigatory stage of the attack
shall remain. Notice to an adult co-owner of a dog shall be sufficient notice
to all other co-owners of the dog. The notice shall be given at least seven (7)
days prior to the hearing. The notice may be given by first class mail
addressed to the residence of the owner. If the owner cannot be identified
after reasonable inquiry, notice may be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation or by posting a copy thereof on an entrance to the
residence of the owner or the location where the dog is being kept. The notice
shall contain the date, time and place of hearing, a description of the dog,
and shall also generally describe the conduct of the dog that constitutes the
basis of the investigation. If the owner provides proof of euthanization of the
dog prior to the administrative hearing, the findings by the hearing officer
shall indicate euthanization prior to the administrative hearing without a
determination of whether the dog was vicious.
   C.   At the administrative hearing, the village representative may interview
any witnesses, including the owner, provide relevant information and submit any
existing medical records, veterinary medical records or behavioral evidence.
The owner shall also be permitted to interview witnesses, provide relevant
information and present proof that the conduct of the dog was justified,
including but not limited to those affirmative defenses set forth in subsection
D below. Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified
veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to
determine whether the dog’s behavior was justified. Hearsay shall be
admissible.
   D.   After the administrative hearing, if there is clear and convincing
evidence, the hearing officer may find that the dog is a vicious dog. The
hearing officer may also decline to find the dog vicious if the conduct of the
dog was justified because:
      1.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog; or
      2.   The injured, threatened, or killed person or companion animal was
tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or its
offspring, or has in the past tormented, abused, assaulted, or physically
threatened the dog or its offspring; or
      3.   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or offspring; or
      4.   If it is a police dog or a service dog, provided an attack or injury
to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected; or
      5.   For other reasons as specified by the hearing officer.
The hearing officer shall issue an order to that effect that sets forth the
basis for such determination and serve a copy thereof upon the owner. The order
shall also reasonably inform the owner of the right to seek judicial review of
the order.
   E.   If a dog is determined to be vicious, the following restrictions shall
apply to the keeping of the dog in the village:
      1.   Use of leash and muzzle mandatory. The dog shall only be allowed
outdoors and outside of an enclosure if: (a) the dog is securely muzzled in a
manner that will prevent it from biting any person or animal, but that will not
injure the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration; (b) the dog is
restrained on a non-retractable Leash no longer than six feet; (c) the dog is
under the direct control and supervision of the owner or other adult at least
18 years of age; and (d) the release is (i) necessary for veterinary care for
the dog; (ii) pursuant to a sale or other change of owners that results in the
removal of the vicious dog from the corporate limits of the village; (iii)
pursuant to the immediate transfer of the vicious dog to another enclosure; or
(iv) necessary for compliance with an order of the hearing officer or the
court.
      2.   Liability Insurance. The owner of the vicious dog must obtain and
maintain, and provide the village with satisfactory evidence of, liability
insurance coverage, in the amount of at least $150,000.00, which coverage
includes without limitation coverage for animal bites. In lieu of liability
insurance, the owner of a vicious dog may obtain a surety bond in the value of
at least $150,000.00.
      3.   Required signage. Any person who keeps or maintains any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog must display in a prominent place on the
premises where the vicious dog is confined, and at each entrance to any outdoor
enclosure where the dog is kept, clearly visible signage stating that a vicious
dog is kept on the premises. Each such sign shall be a noncombustible material,
weather resistant and one (1) foot by one (1) foot in size with text not less
than one (1) inch in height. The text of such sign shall read: WARNING: VICIOUS
DOG KEPT ON THE PREMISES.
   F.   In addition to the requirements to keeping a vicious dog as set forth
in subsection E above, the hearing officer may order one or more of the
following as the hearing officer deems appropriate under the circumstances and
necessary for the protection of the public:
      1.   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this subsection.
      2.   The dog shall be spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of the
finding at the expense of its owner.
      3.   Microchipped, if not already. If the dog is currently micro chipped,
proof of such must be filed with the village or its designee.
      4.   The dog shall be subject to enclosure during those times that the
dog is not in the immediate control of its owner and outside of the owner’s
residence.
      5.   A fine may be imposed in accordance with this chapter.
      6.   Reimbursement of the victim for expenses incurred as a result of the
attack.
      7.   In the event the owner does not comply by a date certain, the
hearing officer may order the owner to turn over custody of the dog to the
animal control center to be held by the animal control center at the owner’s
cost and expense.
      8.   The owner is prohibited from selling or giving away or otherwise
placing a vicious dog in the permanent possession of any other person,
including without limitation any animal shelter, without first notifying that
person that the dog has been designated a vicious dog pursuant to this chapter
and notifying the jurisdiction to which the dog will be transferred of the
dog’s designation as a vicious dog.
A determination by the hearing officer that a dog is a vicious dog constitutes
a final administrative decision for the purposes of judicial review thereof in
accordance with law. Upon filing a notice of appeal, the hearing officer’s
order declaring the dog to be a vicious dog may be stayed in whole or in part
by a court of competent jurisdiction. Until the order has been reviewed, and at
all times during the appeal process, the owner shall comply with the
requirements as set forth herein. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for
all fees associated with the appeal and/or holding of the dog while the appeal
takes place.
   G.   Failure to Comply with Conditions. No person shall keep or maintain a
vicious dog within the corporate limits of the village unless the dog is kept
and maintained in compliance with this chapter and each of the conditions of
any order entered by the heath official, a court of competent jurisdiction or
the hearing officer, as applicable. Any vicious dog that is not kept and
maintained as so provided is declared hereby to be a public nuisance and may be
apprehended and impounded upon the order of the chief of police. The
impoundment may, at the discretion of the chief of police, continue through any
subsequent investigation of the police department and any subsequent
determination of the hearing officer or the court. If it is not possible to
secure compliance with the foregoing conditions, the court or hearing officer
may order that the vicious dog be permanently removed form the corporate limits
of the village within 14 days, with the owner of the dog being responsible for
all fees and costs incurred by the village in caring for the vicious dog prior
to such removal If the hearing officer or the court orders the permanent
removal of the dog pursuant, the owner must, within 14 days of the order to
remove the dog from the corporate limits of the village, provide written
evidence to the village that the owner has informed the person(s) to whom the
dog has been relocated of the dog’s designation as a vicious dog under this
chapter and that those person(s) have consented to the shelter and care of the
dog, and has informed the animal control authority in the jurisdiction to which
the animal is being relocated of the dog’s designation as a vicious dog under
this chapter and the animal control authority has consented to the relocation.
If the owner is unable to comply with these conditions, the court or hearing
officer may order that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed, subject to the
provisions of section
5-1D-11 below.
      H.   Dogs designated as vicious in other jurisdictions. Any person
desiring to bring a dog to live in the village that has been previously
declared within another jurisdiction to have behaved in a vicious manner or a
similar manner or has been designated within another jurisdiction as a vicious
dog or any similar designation, must notify the police department prior to
moving the dog into the village of such declaration or designation. Upon moving
the dog into the village, the dog will be considered as a vicious dog pursuant
to this chapter, and the owner must comply at all times with each and every
requirement and restriction established in this chapter pertaining to vicious
dogs. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
5-1D-11: EXCEPTION TO HUMANE DESTRUCTION:
Notwithstanding the finding of the hearing officer that a dangerous dog or
vicious dog ought to be humanely destroyed, the court or hearing officer shall
not order the humane destruction of the dangerous dog or vicious dog, as
applicable, if the owner of the dog furnishes the court or hearing officer with
written proof that:
   A.   The dog will be placed in an animal shelter outside of the village that
has been notified of the dog’s designation as a dangerous dog or vicious dog,
as applicable, under this chapter and has consented to the shelter and care of
the dog;
   B.   The animal shelter will accept the dog and the owner is willing to pay
all necessary expenses for transporting the dog to the animal shelter; and
   C.   The owner has informed the animal control authority in the jurisdiction
to which the animal is being relocated of the dog’s designation as a dangerous
dog or vicious dog, as applicable, under this chapter and the animal control
authority, if required by law, has consented to the relocation. (Ord. 22-08-08,
8-16-2022)
5-1D-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of the Riverwoods Animal Control
Ordinance shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and each day’s continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in this chapter, Service
Dogs and Police Dogs shall not be declared public nuisances pursuant to
provisions hereof if the behavior that would provide the basis for a
declaration of public nuisance occurred while the dog was performing its duties
as expected.
   C.   Civil enforcement. The village may commence any appropriate action at
law or in equity to enforce the provisions of this section or any
administrative order and to protect against any violation thereof. A showing of
inadequate remedy at law or irreparable harm shall not be needed to obtain and
injunction or restraining order. These remedies shall be in addition to the
penalties set forth elsewhere in the code. The powers granted herein are in
addition to those set forth in the Animal Control Act and Lake County ACA, or
other laws. (Ord. 22-08-08, 8-16-2022)
ARTICLE E. WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Definitions
5-1E-2: Weapons, Possession And Discharge
5-1E-3: Firearms; Protection Of Minors
5-1E-4: Forfeiture And Disposition Of Weapons
5-1E-5: Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions
5-1E-6: Nitroglycerin, TNT Prohibited; Exceptions
5-1E-7: Compliance With Rules Of State Fire Marshal
5-1E-8: Penalty
5-1E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
FIREARM: Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed or restored to
expel a projectile or projectiles by the action of any explosive, expansion of
gas or escape of gas. Provided, that such term shall not include:
   A.   Any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paintball gun or BB gun which either
expels a single globular projectile not exceeding 0.18 inch in diameter and
which has a maximum muzzle velocity of less than seven hundred feet (700') per
second or breakable paintballs containing washable marking colors;
   B.   Any device used exclusively for line throwing, signaling, or safety and
required or recommended by the United States coast guard or interstate commerce
commission; or
   C.   Any device used exclusively for firing explosives, rivets, stud
cartridges, or any similar industrial ammunition.
PEACE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
STUN GUN OR TASER: A. Any device which is powered by electrical charging units,
such as batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of
disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him
incapable of normal functioning, or
   B.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in such
a manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning. (Ord. 13-07-14, 7-
16-2013)
5-1E-2: WEAPONS, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE:
   A.   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm within the village,
except in lawful self-defense or defense of another.
   B.   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he or she
knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
blackjack, slungshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas; or
      2.   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character; or
      3.   Carries on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a nonlethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person eighteen (18) years of
age or older; or
      4.   Sets a spring gun; or
      5.   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
For the purposes of this section, "billy club" means a short stick or club
commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or constructed
of a solid piece of wood or other manmade material.
   C.   The presence in an automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection B of this section is
prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by,
all persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or
substance is found, except under the following circumstances: 1) if such
weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the person of one of the
occupants therein; or 2) if such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an
automobile operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and
proper pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the
driver.
   D.   No person shall shoot with or use out of doors, within the village
limits, a bow and arrow, the bow of which has a "pull" of ten (10) pounds or
over unless a permit in writing to use same is first obtained from the chief of
police. No person shall use any arrow with a tip or point of steel or other
hard substance unless a permit in writing to use same is first obtained from
the chief of police.
   E.   No person shall shoot any air rifle, pellet gun or BB gun or arrow
within the village except when such weapon is used in or on any private grounds
or residence under circumstances when such weapon is shot in such a manner as
not to endanger persons or property and then only if such weapon is actually
being used as to prevent the projectile or arrow from passing over any grounds
or space outside the limits of such grounds or residence.
   F.   The provisions of subsections A, B3 and B5 of this section shall not
apply to:
      1.   A peace officer or other exempt persons described in section 24-2 of
the criminal code of 2012.
      2.   Any toy pistols capable of exploding only paper caps containing
thirty five (35) grains or less explosive composition, including starter
pistols used in sporting or athletic events.
      3.   The discharge of firearms in an indoor shooting range which is
adequate to prevent the escape of a bullet or cartridge from the premises.
      4.   For purposes of defining a "dangerous knife", the use and possession
without intent to use the same unlawfully against another of any closed
nonmechanical, nongravity pocketknife of six inches (6") overall length or
less, or any knife essential to one's trade, shall not constitute any unlawful
use of a weapon. (Ord. 13-07-14, 7-16-2013)
5-1E-3: FIREARMS; PROTECTION OF MINORS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, it is unlawful for
any person to store or leave, within premises under his or her control, a
firearm if the person knows or has reason to believe that a minor under the age
of fourteen (14) years who does not have a firearm owner's identification card
is likely to gain access to the firearm without the lawful permission of the
minor's parent, guardian, or person having charge of the minor, and the minor
causes death or great bodily harm with the firearm, unless the firearm is:
      1.   Secured by a device or mechanism, other than the firearm safety,
designed to render a firearm temporarily inoperable; or
      2.   Placed in a securely locked box or container; or
      3.   Placed in some other location that a reasonable person would believe
to be secure from a minor under the age of fourteen (14) years.
   B.   Subsection A of this section does not apply:
      1.   If the minor under fourteen (14) years of age gains access to a
firearm and uses it in a lawful act of self-defense or defense of another; or
      2.   To any firearm obtained by a minor under the age of fourteen (14)
because of an unlawful entry of the premises by the minor or another person.
(Ord. 13-07-14, 7-16-2013)
5-1E-4: FORFEITURE AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
Every person convicted of any violation under this article shall, in addition
to any penalty provided in this code, forfeit to the village any weapon and the
village shall have the discretion of either disposing of the weapon or
retaining the same for official police force use. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1E-5: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell, possess, use or
explode any blank cartridge, except use in starter pistols for sporting or
athletic events, and except for sparklers, any toy pistol, toy cannon, toy cane
or toy gun in which explosives are used; the type of balloon which requires
fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman
candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction, or any fireworks
containing any explosive or inflammable compound or any tablets or other device
commonly used and sold as fireworks. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
   B.   Permits for the supervised public display of fireworks may be issued by
the village president, and the village president is hereby authorized to
designate a competent individual professionally qualified to handle every such
display at or prior to the time of the issuance of any permit. Every such
display shall be handled by said individual so designated by the village
president and shall be of such a character and so located, discharged or fired
as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
   Application for permits shall be made in writing at least fifteen (15) days
in advance of the display and action shall be taken on such application by the
village president within forty eight (48) hours after such application is made.
   Permits may be granted hereunder to any groups of three (3) or more adult
individuals or to any corporation applying therefor.
   No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   Other than the date of July 4, no public display of fireworks will be
permitted within the boundaries of the village. (Res. 6-5-73)
5-1E-6: NITROGLYCERIN, TNT PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall keep or store any nitroglycerin or the explosive commonly known
as TNT in the village in any quantities, excepting for medicinal or laboratory
purposes and for such purposes no more than one-fourth (1/4) ounce shall be
stored in any one building or premises. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1E-7: COMPLIANCE WITH RULES OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL:
All explosives must be kept or stored in accordance with the rules endorsed by
the state fire marshal with regard to the same, subject to the conditions of
this article. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977)
5-1E-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a specific
section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued violation
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 13-07-14, 7-16-2013)
ARTICLE F. REGULATION AND LICENSING OF ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-1F-1: Purpose And Definitions
5-1F-2: Automatic Dialing Service-Interconnection To Primary Trunk Lines
5-1F-3: Testing Of Equipment
5-1F-4: Alarm User Registration
5-1F-5: False Alarms
5-1F-6: Penalty
5-1F-7: Liability Of Village Limited
5-1F-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards and
regulations applicable to burglar and holdup alarm systems and alarm users as
defined in this article and to promote proper maintenance and operation of
alarm systems and to discourage false alarms.
   B.   For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words,
and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
    ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device such
as a solid state unit which plugs directly into a 110-volt AC line) arranged to
signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which police
are expected to respond. In this article, the term "alarm system" shall include
the terms "automatic holdup alarm systems", "burglar alarm systems", "holdup
alarm systems", and "manual holdup alarm systems". Fire alarm systems and alarm
systems which monitor temperature, humidity, or any other condition not
directly related to the detection of an unauthorized intrusion into a premises
or an attempted robbery at a premises are specifically excluded from the
provisions of this article.
   ALARM USER: Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
within the village except for alarm systems on motor vehicles or proprietary
systems. If, however, an alarm system on a motor vehicle is connected with an
alarm system at a premises (other than a proprietary system) the person using
such system is an alarm user. Also excluded from this definition and from the
coverage of this article are persons who use alarm systems to alert or signal
persons within the premises in which the alarm system is located of an
attempted unauthorized intrusion or holdup attempt. If such a system, however,
employs an audible signal emitting sounds or flashing light or beacon designed
to signal persons outside the premises, such systems shall be within the
definition of alarm systems and shall be subject to this article.
   ANNUNCIATOR: The instrumentation on an alarm console at the receiving
terminal of a signal line which through both visual and audible signals show
when an alarm device at a particular location has been activated or it may also
indicate line trouble.
   ANSWERING SERVICE: A telephone service providing, among its services, the
service of receiving on a continuous basis through trained employees, emergency
signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the message by
live voice to the communication center of the police department.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: An alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   CENTRAL STATION: An office to which remote alarm and supervisory signaling
devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits, and where guards
are maintained continuously to investigate signals.
   CENTRAL STATION EQUIPMENT: The signal receiving, recording, or
retransmitting equipment installed in the central station.
   CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM: A system in which the operation of electrical
protection circuits and devices are signaled automatically to, recorded in,
maintained, and supervised from a central station having trained operators and
guards in attendance at all times.
   DIRECT CONNECT: An alarm system which has the capability of transmitting
system signals to and receiving them at an agency maintained by the local
government; for example, a police communications center.
   DIRECT LINE: A telephone line leading directly from a central station to the
communications center of the Police Department that is for use only to report
emergency signals on a person-to-person basis. (Ord. 84-11-29, 11-19-84)
   FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal resulting from a malfunction, improper
installation or human error, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes or other acts
of God or an interruption of service supplied by a carrier of the signal. (Ord.
85-10-47, 10-1-85)
   HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system signaling a robbery or attempted
robbery.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM: A signaling system which when activated causes an
audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises
within which the system is installed.
   MANUAL HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system in which the signal transmission
is initiated by the direct action of the person attacked or by an observer of
the attack.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, or any other legal entity.
   POLICE CHIEF: The Chief of the Police Department which serves the Village of
Riverwoods, or his designated representative.
   POLICE or POLICE DEPARTMENT: The publicly supported police department of the
Village of Riverwoods or any authorized agent thereof.
   PRIMARY TRUNKLINE: A telephone line leading directly into the communication
center of the Police Department that is for the purpose of handling emergency
calls on a person-to-person basis, and which is identified as such by a
specific number included among the emergency numbers listed in the telephone
directory issued by the telephone company and covering the service area within
the Police Department's jurisdiction.
   PROPRIETARY SYSTEM: An alarm system sounding and/or recording alarm and
supervisory signals at a control center located within the protected premises,
the control center being under the supervision of the proprietor of the
protected premises. If a proprietary system includes a signal line connected
directly or by means of an automatic dialing device to a police communication
center, a central station, modified central station or an answering service, it
thereby becomes an "alarm system" as defined in this Article.
   SPECIAL TRUNKLINE: A telephone line leading into the communication center of
the Police Department and having the primary purpose of handling emergency
signals or messages originating either directly or through a central location
from automatic dialing devices.
   SUBSCRIBER: A person who buys and/or leases, or otherwise obtains an alarm
signaling system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to
monitor and/or service the alarm device.
   TELEPHONE COMPANY: The utility that furnishes telephone services to the
Village.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Riverwoods, Illinois.
5-1F-2: AUTOMATIC DIALING SERVICE-INTERCONNECTION TO PRIMARY TRUNKLINES:
   A.   No automatic dialing device shall be interconnected to a primary
trunkline, and all automatic dialing devices interconnected to a primary
trunkline shall be disconnected therefrom.
   B.   Automatic dialing devices designed to transmit signals directly to the
Police Department may be interconnected to a special trunkline into the
department. The Police Chief shall designate the number to be used for this
purpose.
5-1F-3: TESTING OF EQUIPMENT:
No alarm system designed to transmit emergency messages directly to the Police
Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining permission
from the Police Chief. Permission is not required to test or demonstrate alarm
devices not transmitting emergency messages directly to the Police Department
unless the messages are to be relayed to the Police Department.
5-1F-4: ALARM USER REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration: Every alarm user shall register each alarm system he
operates within this Village with the Police Chief, through the Village Hall.
   B.   Alarm User Registration Application: The alarm user shall state on the
application form his name, the address of the residence or business, or
businesses in or upon which the alarm system has been or will be installed, his
telephone number, the type of alarm system (local, direct connect, central
station, etc.), the individual or alarm company selling, installing,
monitoring, inspecting, responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system, and
the name and telephone number of at least one person (in the case of a
corporate alarm user applicant, at least two [2] persons) who can be reached at
any time, day or night, and who is authorized to respond to an alarm signal and
who can open the premises, in which the system is installed.
   C.   A registration fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be paid to the
Village at time of application. The registration fee is nonrefundable and
registration is nontransferable. Upon change in ownership of the premises in
which the alarm system is installed, a re-registration shall be required of the
new owner, as well as a new registration fee.
   D.   The information contained in an alarm user registration application
required by Section
5-1F-5B and other information received by the Police Chief through
correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall be securely
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Police Chief or certain
officers or Village employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling and processing alarm user registrations in the course of official
duties. The Police Chief or any employee of the Village shall not reveal the
information contained in an alarm user registration application or in
correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any other person for any
purpose not related to this Article or official law enforcement matters and
without the express written consent of the alarm user supplying such
information.
   E.   Any alarm system user who operates an alarm system without first
registering as required by this Article, and fails to disconnect his alarm
system, shall be in violation of this Article.
5-1F-5: FALSE ALARMS:
More than three (3) false alarms in any calendar year from any alarm system
shall subject the alarm user to the following false alarm fee schedule:
Number Of Alarms Fee For Each
Number Of Alarms       Fee For Each
1 - 3                  No charge
4 - 6                  $ 25.00
7 - 9                  50.00
10 - 12                75.00
13 or more             100.00
All trouble alarms     10.00 after first 3
All alarm repair calls No charge
 
(Ord. 84-11-29, 11-19-1984)
5-1F-6: PENALTY:
It is hereby unlawful to:
   A.   Fail to register an alarm system as required by this article; or
   B.   Fail to pay the required registration fee; or
   C.   Fail to pay the required false alarm fee; or
   D.   Violate any of the provisions of this article.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1F-7: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED:
The village shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm signals
and prerecorded alarm messages received by the village are given appropriate
attention and are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the village shall not
be liable for any defects in operation of automatic protection devices and
signal line systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon
receipt of an alarm from such source, nor for the failure or neglect to any
person with a license as described herein or with a franchise, in connection
with the installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm
signals and prerecorded alarm message, or the relaying of such signals and
messages. (Ord. 84-11-29, 11-19-1984)
ARTICLE G. REGULATION OF OPEN FIRES AND BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE
SECTION:
5-1G-1: Definitions
5-1G-2: General Regulation Of Open Burning
5-1G-3: Conditions Generally Applicable To Open Burning
5-1G-4: Conditions Applicable To Open Burning Of Landscape Waste
5-1G-5: Conditions Applicable To Open Burning For Forestry Restoration Or
Management
5-1G-6: Penalty
5-1G-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms as used in this chapter shall
have the meanings set forth below:
AIR QUALITY ALERT OR FIRE ALERT: A reduction in air quality or increase in fire
risk brought about by various conditions such that the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the village or residents of nearby communities is
likely to be seriously jeopardized beyond a moderate level of risk by the
continued burning of landscape waste or recreational fires. Such conditions are
those resulting from various factors, alone or in combination, such as high
temperatures, high winds, extended periods of low precipitation and low
moisture levels in the soil and other related factors, stagnant air masses or
air inversions, high levels of ground ozone, extended periods of low
precipitation, smog and ozone alerts issued by other governmental agencies, or
other emergencies which may arise from the release of toxic or hazardous gases,
chemicals, fumes or other substances in a geographical area that affects the
village. Air quality alerts or fire alerts may be declared by the village
president or, if the village president is for any reason unavailable to act,
any two (2) members of the board of trustees by the posting of a notice at the
village hall, and upon such posting the air quality alert or fire alert shall
be in effect. To the extent other means are deemed advisable or necessary by
the village president or such trustees, they may elect to post signs in the
village, or provide for emergency broadcast announcements or the use of
automatic telephone dialers to issue recorded warnings.
BONFIRE: An outdoor fire which is utilized for ceremonial purposes and which is
kindled from fuel stacked more than three feet (3') in height.
FIRE PIT OR FIRE RING: A firebox or container or outdoor fireplace made of
steel, cooper, stone or bricks or other combustion resistant material in which
combustion occurs and which is designed for the purpose of maintaining a
controlled outdoor fire that is commonly utilized for providing an outdoor
source of warmth or as a campfire for outdoor gatherings. Fire pits and fire
rings may be designed as freestanding kettles, pots, grills or chambers, either
stationary or wheeled, or may be designed as inground or aboveground structures
fixed in place, and may be designed to burn with wood logs, natural gas or
liquid propane.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Fallen leaves, brush, twigs, sticks, but does not include any
grass cuttings or "garbage", "litter", "refuse" or "rubbish" (as each of such
terms is defined in section
4-3-1 of this code).
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any materials wherein the products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. For purposes of this definition, a chamber
shall be regarded as enclosed, when, during the time combustion occurs, only
apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air
and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
OUTDOOR COOKING: An outdoor fire kindled for the purpose of cooking food for
human consumption.
RECREATIONAL FIRE: An outdoor fire kindled in a fire pit or fire ring, the
purpose of which is primarily for general recreational entertainment. (Ord. 06-
2-3, 2-21-2006)
5-1G-2: GENERAL REGULATION OF OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Exceptions: A person shall not cause or allow open burning within the
village unless such open burning is conducted under one of the following
exceptions from this general prohibition and otherwise in accordance with all
pertinent conditions set forth in this article:
      1.   Outdoor cooking.
      2.   Recreational fires.
      3.   Open burning of landscape waste, provided it is conducted between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
      4.   Fires started and attended by personnel of the fire protection
districts serving the village for purposes of instruction in methods of
firefighting, for research in control of fires, and in emergency or
extraordinary circumstances for any purpose determined to be necessary by the
fire district officials.
      5.   Fires used for recognized forestry restoration or management
practices, provided a permit is obtained from the village as provided below.
      6.   Highway safety flares. (Ord. 06-2-3, 2-21-2006)
5-1G-3: CONDITIONS GENERALLY APPLICABLE TO OPEN BURNING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct open burning in the
village at any time following the declaration of an air quality alert or fire
alert, until such time as the air quality alert or fire alert has been
rescinded. The village may order the extinguishment of any open burning that
will be offensive or objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions when
atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous or
objectionable. Any recreational fires or open burning of landscape waste that
is otherwise lawful shall be deemed unlawful if it is conducted on a day or in
a manner that, when taking into consideration high temperatures, local wind
speeds, extended periods of low precipitation, low moisture levels in the soil
and other related factors, will produce more than a moderate level of risk to
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village or residents of
nearby communities.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a bonfire except upon
receiving a special permit from the village. The application for such permit
shall contain, at a minimum, information regarding the purpose of the proposed
burning, the nature and qualities of material to be burned, the date when the
burning will take place, the location of the burning site, the on site fire
extinguishing equipment to be provided and such other information which may be
required of the applicant to demonstrate that the burning can be safely
conducted.
   C.   Any open burning shall be constantly attended until the fire is
extinguished. At least one portable extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating, two
(2) portable extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating each, or a water hose
connected to a water supply on the lot where the burning is done and kept no
more than ten feet (10') from the location of the fire shall be available for
immediate utilization.
   D.   Open burning shall not be utilized for waste disposal purposes, shall
be of the minimum size for the intended purpose. All fire pits or fire rings,
if not using liquid propane or natural gas as fuel, shall utilize seasoned dry
firewood to minimize the generation and emission of odors and air contaminants.
   E.   Fire pits and fire rings shall not be placed under low hanging trees
and shall be kept away from deck railings, siding or any combustible materials.
Fire pits and fire rings, if not equipped with and using covers and spark
arrestors (that is, the fire is not located within an enclosed container),
shall be located not less than fifty feet (50') from any structure, and
provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading to within fifty
feet (50') of any structure. Fire pits and fire rings equipped with and using
covers and spark arrestors shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15')
from any structure but due care shall be exercised with regard to placement on
wood decks, porches or on or near other combustible surfaces. (Ord. 06-2-3, 2-
21-2006)
5-1G-4: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO OPEN BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE:
Open burning of landscape waste on any lot shall be conducted only pursuant to
permit issued by the village with due regard for maintaining safe and
controlled conditions under which such burning shall occur and shall be
constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. Each person burning
landscape waste shall keep at least one (1) portable extinguisher with a
minimum 4-A rating, two (2) portable extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating
each, or a water hose connected to a water supply on the lot where the burning
is done and kept no more than ten (10) feet from the location of the fire,
available for immediate utilization. Open burning shall be limited to landscape
waste generated from the property in question and (except in case of a
permitted, owner managed restoration burn) shall be confined to a fuel area
having a diameter of no more than three feet (3') and height of no more than
two feet (2'). The area in which landscape waste is burned shall not be located
within any of the required yards (front, side or rear) of the lot. All
landscape waste which is open burned shall be open burned in accordance with
the requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency and shall be
dry enough to minimize excessive smoke or odors. Garbage or any other material
that is not landscape waste shall not be open burned. A permit for open burning
of landscape waste shall be issued (provided no air alert or fire alert is
pending) subject to the foregoing conditions and such other conditions as may
be reasonable for public safety and to prevent nuisance smoke from entering
nearby properties. A permit for open burning may be issued for up to ninety
(90) days and may be renewed upon payment for each permit in accordance with
the village fee schedule. The permit may be rescinded at any time when the
foregoing conditions cannot be satisfied or are not complied with during the
burning; such notice canceling a permit may be delivered by personal service or
by posting upon the property that is the site for which the permit was issued.
When a permit is so canceled, any open burning on the property shall be
immediately extinguished. (Ord. 06-2-3, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 25-03-06, 3-18-
2025)
5-1G-5: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO OPEN BURNING FOR FORESTRY RESTORATION OR
MANAGEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct open burning for recognized
forestry restoration or management practices unless an application for such
open burning shall be submitted in writing to the Village Forester on such
forms and containing such information as required by such official. Such
application shall contain, at a minimum, information regarding the purpose of
the proposed burning, the nature and qualities of material to be burned, the
date when the burning will take place, the location of the burning site, the on
site fire extinguishing equipment to be provided and such other information
which may be required of the applicant to demonstrate that the burning can be
safely conducted. In addition to satisfying all requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and obtaining any necessary IEPA permit, the
applicant must demonstrate that recognized forestry restoration or management
practices will be advanced (particularly in regard to the promotion of the
goals of the Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance). If the Village
Forester determines that such goals will be advanced, then a permit may be
issued. Such permit may contain conditions regarding safety precautions and
prior notification to the fire district serving the Village shall be provided.
(Ord. 06-2-3, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
5-1G-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for a first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
second offense and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each successive
offense. Each day's continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 06-2-3, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 25-03-06, 3-18-2025)
ARTICLE H. OFFENSES CONSTITUTING THEFT
SECTION:
5-1H-1: Definitions
5-1H-2: Theft
5-1H-3: Prima Facie Evidence Of Intent
5-1H-4: Prima Facie Evidence, Theft By Lessee
5-1H-5: Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property
5-1H-6: Theft Of Labor Or Services Or Use Of Property
5-1H-7: False Report Of Theft And Other Losses
5-1H-8: Offender's Interest In The Property
5-1H-9: Theft From Coin Operated Machines
5-1H-10: Coin Operated Machines, Possession Of Key Or Device
5-1H-11: Unlawful Interference With Public Utility Services
5-1H-12: Penalty
5-1H-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
DECEPTION: Knowingly to:
   A.   Create or confirm another's impression which is false and which the
offender does not believe to be true; or
   B.   Fail to correct a false impression which the offender previously has
created or confirmed; or
   C.   Prevent another from acquiring information pertinent to the disposition
of the property involved; or
   D.   Sell or otherwise transfer or encumber property, failing to disclose a
lien, adverse claim, or other legal impediment to the enjoyment of the
property, whether such impediment is or is not valid, or is or is not a matter
of official record; or
   E.   Promise performance that the offender does not intend to perform or
knows will not be performed. Failure to perform standing alone is not evidence
that the offender did not intend to perform.
OBTAIN: A. In relation to property, to bring about a transfer of interest or
possession, whether to the offender or to another; and
   B.   In relation to labor or services, to secure the performance of the
labor or service.
OBTAINS CONTROL: The phrase "obtains or exerts control" over property,
includes, but is not limited to, the taking, carrying away, or the sale,
conveyance, or transfer of title, or interest in, or possession of property.
OWNER: A person, other than the offender, who has possession of or any other
interest in the property involved, even though such interest or possession is
unlawful, and without whose consent the offender has no authority to exert
control over the property.
PERMANENT DEPRIVATION: To "permanently deprive" means to:
   A.   Defeat all recovery of the property by the owner; or
   B.   Deprive the owner permanently of the beneficial use of the property; or
   C.   Retain the property with intent to restore it to the owner only if the
owner purchases or leases it back, or pays a reward or other compensation for
its return; or
   D.   Sell, give, pledge, or otherwise transfer any interest in the property
or subject it to the claim of a person other than the owner.
PROPERTY: Anything of value includes real estate, money, commercial
instruments, admission or transportation tickets, written instruments
representing or embodying rights concerning anything of value, labor, or
services, or otherwise of value to the owner; things growing on, affixed to, or
found on land, or part of or affixed to any building; electricity, gas and
water; telecommunications services, birds, animals and fish, which ordinarily
are kept in a state of confinement; food and drink; samples, cultures,
microorganisms, specimens, records, recordings, documents, blueprints,
drawings, maps, and whole or partial copies, descriptions, photographs,
computer programs or data, prototypes or models thereof, or any other articles,
materials, devices, substances and whole or partial copies, descriptions,
photographs, prototypes, or models thereof which constitute, represent,
evidence, reflect or record a secret scientific, technical, merchandising,
production or management information, design, process, procedure, formula,
invention, or improvement.
STOLEN PROPERTY: Property over which control has been obtained by theft.
THREAT: A menace, however communicated, to:
   A.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
on property; or
   B.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   C.   Commit any criminal offense; or
   D.   Accuse any person of a criminal offense; or
   E.   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   F.   Harm the credit or business repute of any person; or
   G.   Reveal any information sought to be concealed by the person threatened;
or
   H.   Take action as an official against anyone or anything, or withhold
official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   I.   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other similar collective
action if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit of the group
which he purports to represent; or
   J.   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or information
with respect to another's legal claim or defense; or
   K.   Inflict any other harm that would not benefit the offender.
VALUE: The "value" of property consisting of any commercial instrument or any
written instrument representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services or otherwise of value to the owner shall be:
   A.   The "market value" of such instrument if such instrument is negotiable
and has a market value; and
   B.   The "actual value" of such instrument if such instrument is not
negotiable or is otherwise without a market value. For the purpose of
establishing such "actual value", the interest of any owner or owners entitled
to part or all of the property represented by such instrument, by reason of
such instrument, may be shown, even if another "owner" may be named in the
complaint, information or indictment. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-2: THEFT:
A person commits theft when other than by the use of a firearm, not from the
person, and in an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), he or
she knowingly:
   A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   B.   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner; or
   C.   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; or
   D.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce the person to
believe that the property was stolen, and
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-3: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF INTENT:
It shall be prima facie evidence of intent that a person "knowingly obtains by
deception, control over property of the owner" when he or she fails to return,
within forty five (45) days after written demand from the owner, the down
payment and any additional payments accepted under a promise, oral or in
writing, to perform services for the owner for consideration of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) or more, and the promisor wilfully without good cause
failed to substantially perform pursuant to the agreement after taking a down
payment of ten percent (10%) or more of the agreed upon consideration. This
provision shall not apply where the owner initiated the suspension of
performance under the agreement, or where the promisor responds to the notice
within the forty five (45) day notice period. A notice in writing, addressed
and mailed by registered mail, to the promisor at the last known address of the
promisor, shall constitute proper demand. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-4: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE, THEFT BY LESSEE:
It shall be prima facie evidence that a person "knowingly obtains or exerts
unauthorized control over property of the owner" when a lessee of the personal
property of another fails to return it to the owner within thirty (30) days
after written demand from the owner for its return. A notice in writing, given
after the expiration of the leasing agreement, addressed and mailed by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address last given and shown on the
leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-5: THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY:
A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits theft when
that person:
   A.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of, or
learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner; and
   B.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the owner;
and
   C.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-6: THEFT OF LABOR OR SERVICES OR USE OF PROPERTY:
A person commits theft when he or she obtains the temporary use of property,
labor or services of another which are available only for hire, by means of
threat or deception or knowing that such use is without the consent of the
person providing the property, labor or services. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-7: FALSE REPORT OF THEFT AND OTHER LOSSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make a false report of a
theft, destruction, damage or conversion of any property to the Riverwoods
police department or other village governmental agency with the intent to
defraud an insurer. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-8: OFFENDER'S INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY:
   A.   It is no defense to a charge of theft of property that the offender has
an interest therein, when the owner also has an interest to which the offender
is not entitled.
   B.   Where the property involved is that of the offender's spouse, no
prosecution for theft may be maintained unless the parties were not living
together as man and wife and were living in separate abodes at the time of the
alleged theft. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-9: THEFT FROM COIN OPERATED MACHINES:
   A.   A person commits theft from a coin operated machine when he or she
knowingly and without authority and with intent to commit a theft from such
machine, opens, breaks into, tampers with, or damages a coin operated machine.
   B.   As used in this section, the term "coin operated machine" shall include
any automatic vending machine or any part thereof, parking meter, coin
telephone, coin laundry machine, coin dry cleaning machine, amusement machine,
music machine, vending machine dispensing goods or services, money changer.
(Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-10: COIN OPERATED MACHINES, POSSESSION OF KEY OR DEVICE:
Whoever possesses a key, tool, instrument, explosive or device or a drawing,
print or mold of a key, tool, instrument, explosive or device designed to open,
break into, tamper with or damage a "coin operated machine" as defined in
subsection
5-1H-9B of this article, with intent to commit a theft from such machine, shall
be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-11: UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES:
A person commits the offense of unlawful interference with public utility
services when he or she knowingly, without the consent of the owner of the
services, impairs or interrupts any public water, sewer, telecommunications
service, or other public services, or diverts, or causes to be diverted in
whole or in part, any public water, sewer, telecommunications service or other
public services or installs or removes any device for the purpose of such
diversion. The term "public water, sewer, or other public service" means any
service that is owned and operated by the village of Riverwoods. Any
instrument, apparatus, or device used in obtaining utility services without
paying the full charge therefor or any meter that has been altered, tampered
with, or bypassed so as to cause a lack of measurement or inaccurate
measurement of utility services on premises controlled by the customer or by
the person using or receiving the direct benefit of utility service at that
location shall raise a rebuttable presumption of the commission of the offense
described in this section by such person. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-1H-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a
specific section hereof or is limited by state statute. Each day's continued
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew
5-2-1-1: Definitions
5-2-1-2: Offenses; Penalty For Violation
5-2-1-3: Detaining Child
5-2-2: Vandalism, Parental Responsibility
5-2-3: Age Restrictions Regarding Possession, Sale, Delivery And Consumption Of
Tobacco And Cannabis: Tobacco License Requirements
5-2-4: Sale Or Possession Of Tobacco Accessories And Smoking Herbs By Minors
Prohibited
5-2-5: Offenses Concerning Alcoholic Liquor And Minors
5-2-6: Inciting Violations By Minors
5-2-7: Improper Supervision Of Minors
5-2-8: Disorderly Assemblies
5-2-9: Penalties
5-2-10: Parental Responsibility For Unpaid Penalties
5-2-1: CURFEW:
5-2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
5-2-1:
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; and
one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. Friday or Saturday until six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is: a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person; or at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
REMAIN: To linger or stay; or to fail to leave the premises when requested to
do so by a police officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of
the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 04-4-3, 4-13-
2004; amd. Ord. 06-11-25, 11-21-2006)
5-2-1-2: OFFENSES; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the Village during curfew hours.
   B.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the Village during curfew
hours.
   C.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   D.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the Village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the Village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Mature Minors Act, as amended.
   E.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection C of this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   F.   Before taking any enforcement action under subsection D of this
section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection D of this section is present.
   G.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense except where a specific penalty is provided
for in a specific section hereof or is limited by State Statute. Each day's
continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 04-4-3, 4-13-
2004)
5-2-1-3: DETAINING CHILD:
Each member of the police force while on duty is hereby authorized to detain
any person wilfully violating the provisions of section
5-2-1-2 of this chapter until the parent or legal guardian of the child shall
take him or her into custody; but such officer shall immediately upon taking
custody of the child communicate with the parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 259,
4-18-1977)
5-2-2: VANDALISM, PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor
by a Circuit Court of the State, but does not include a person appointed
guardian, or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act 1 .
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet
seventeen (17) years of age. (Ord. 259, 4-18-1977; amd. 1982 Code)
   B.   Violations: The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence
of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts
described below with the knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in
violation of this section, upon the occurrence of the events described in
subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Police Department of the Village following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanction; and
      3.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in subsection B2 of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to be
in violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection B1 of
this section, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt or violation of any
ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection B1 of this section. (Ord.
259, 4-18-1977)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of subsection B of this
section shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense except where a
specific penalty is provided for in a specific section hereof or is limited by
State Statute. Each day's continued violation shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
5-2-3: AGE RESTRICTIONS REGARDING POSSESSION, SALE, DELIVERY AND CONSUMPTION OF
TOBACCO AND CANNABIS: TOBACCO LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms, phrases and
words shall have the meanings set forth below.
 
                           Cannabis shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
                           the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act enacted by the
                           State of Illinois as 410 ILCS 705/1, et seq., and as
CANNABIS:                  may be amended from time to time, and all State of
                           Illinois rules and regulations promulgated
                           thereunder or related thereto. as if that definition
                           were incorporated herein.
                           Any device that may be used to deliver aerosolized
                           or vaporized nicotine to the person inhaling from
                           the device, including, but not limited to, an e-
                           cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen or e-hookah.
                           Electronic smoking device includes any component,
                           part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: sold separately, and includes any substance intended
                           to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use of the
                           device. Electronic smoking device does not include
                           drugs, devices, or combination products authorized
                           for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
                           as those terms are defined in the Federal Food,
                           Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
                           Any product that is made from or derived from
                           tobacco, or that contains nicotine, and is intended
                           for human consumption or is likely to be consumed,
                           whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
                           inhaled or ingested by any means, including, but not
                           limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco,
                           chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. Tobacco product
TOBACCO PRODUCT:           also means electronic smoking devices and any
                           component or accessory used in the consumption of a
                           tobacco product such as filter, rolling papers,
                           pipes, and liquid used in electronic smoking
                           devices, whether or not they contain nicotine.
                           Tobacco product does not include drugs, devices, or
                           combination products authorized for sale by the U.S.
                           Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are
                           defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
                           Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
VENDING MACHINE:           device which, upon insertion of money, tokens, or
                           any other forms of payment, dispenses tobacco
                           products.
 
   B.   Cannabis.
      1.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall purchase, attempt
to purchase, accept delivery, accept a gift of, grow, or have possession of or
consume cannabis, except where authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot
Program, as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      2.   A violation regarding unlawful consumption of cannabis by a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age may be proven by evidence which tends to
indicate that the breath or person of the person, or items or substances in the
actual or constructive possession of the person, had a smell associated
generally or specifically with cannabis.
   C.   Tobacco and Minors.
      1.   Purchase By Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age: It shall be
unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase tobacco
products or to misrepresent one's identity or age, or to use false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
      2.   Possession By Persons Under Eighteen Years Of Age: It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age to possess
any tobacco products.
      3.   Sale By Persons Under Eighteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful
for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit any person under
eighteen (18) years of age to sell any tobacco products in any licensed
premises.
      4.   Sale To Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell, give, dispense, furnish, or otherwise distribute or
make available any tobacco product to persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age.
   D.   Tobacco Sale, License and Regulations.
      1.   License Required: No person shall engage in the retail sale or
distribution of tobacco products, including the operation of vending machines
that dispense tobacco products, in the Village unless the person is authorized
to do so by a current and valid license issued pursuant to this section, or is
an employee or agent of a person who has been issued a license pursuant to this
chapter. A separate license must be obtained for each establishment maintained
by the retailer. The license to sell or distribute tobacco products shall be
displayed prominently at each establishment for which it is issued.
      2.   License Application: Any person desiring to obtain a license to sell
tobacco products shall make written application for that purpose to the Village
Clerk in which shall be set forth the full name and address of the applicant,
the name and address of the business, firm or corporation at which such sales
are proposed to be made. The term, fees and conditions for such license shall
comply with the general license provisions of the Village under title 3,
chapter 5, article A of this Code; however, any specific provisions of this
section shall control over such general license provisions in the event of any
conflict.
      3.   Responsibility For Agent Or Employee: Every act or omission of
whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this
section by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee; and such
licensee shall be punished in the same manner as if such act or omission had
been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
      4.   Vending Machines - Locking Devices: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to sell, or offer for sale, give away, distribute, or deliver any
tobacco products by or through a vending machine, unless the vending machine is
equipped with a locking device controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its
operation by persons under twenty one (21) years of age.
      However, any premises where (i) access by persons under the age of twenty
one (21) years is prohibited by law or (ii) the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of
businesses located at the premises shall be exempt from the vending machine
locking device requirements of this section.
      5.   Notice Required For Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the sale or distribution of tobacco products within the Village,
unless the person prominently displays as part of every display of tobacco
products offered for sale the following notice:
      THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO ANY PERSON UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      The notice shall be displayed in red letters at least one inch (1") in
height on a white background.
      6.   Free Distribution Of Tobacco Products: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing,
promoting or advertising tobacco products or any employee or agent of any such
licensee or person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business, to
distribute, give away, or deliver tobacco products free of charge to any person
on any right-of-way, playground, park or other property in the Village owned by
the Village, park district or other unit of local government.
      7.   Enforcement: The Chief of Police or the Chief's designee(s) shall be
responsible for the enforcement of this section. They shall conduct random,
unannounced inspections at locations where tobacco products are sold, including
tobacco vending machines, to ensure compliance with this section. Violators may
be cited for violations of this section through a notice to appear in the
Circuit Court of Lake County or through the system of administrative
adjudication adopted by the Village as set forth in title 1, chapter 14 of this
Code. In addition to or in lieu of any other remedies provided in this chapter,
the Village may commence an action to enjoin, remove, or abate any violation of
this chapter in the manner provided by law and to restrain or enjoin any person
from operating in violation of this section. Each instance in which this
section is violated shall constitute separate and distinct offense.
      8.   Use Of Premises After Revocation: When any license has been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to any licensee for the period of
six (6) months thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling tobacco
products in the premises described in the revoked license.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of an offense and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense. For a second
or subsequent offense, any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 18-02-03, 2-20-2018; amd. Ord. 20-09-17, 9-15-
2020)
5-2-4: SALE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS BY MINORS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
    SMOKING HERBS: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives,
including, but not limited to: broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops,
ginseng, lobelia, jimsonweed and other members of the Datura gensus,
passionflower and wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for the
use as smoking materials.
   TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials
of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and other items, designed primarily
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances whose sale,
gift, barter, or exchange is made unlawful by the Illinois Complied Statutes 1
. "Cigarette paper" shall not include any paper that is incorporated into a
product to which a tax stamp must be affixed under the cigarette tax act 2  or
the cigarette use tax act 3 .
   B.   Sale To Minors/Possession By Minors: No person shall knowingly sell,
barter, exchange, deliver or give away or cause or permit or procure to be
sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered or given away tobacco accessories or
smoking herbs to any person under eighteen (18) years of age. No person under
eighteen (18) years of age shall possess any tobacco accessories or smoking
herbs within the corporate limits of the village.
   C.   Sale Of Cigarette Paper: No person shall knowingly offer, sell, barter,
exchange, deliver or give away cigarette paper or cause, permit, or procure
cigarette paper to be sold, offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given
away to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   Sale Of Cigarette Paper From Vending Machine: No person shall knowingly
offer, sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give away cigarette paper or cause,
permit, or procure cigarette paper to be sold, offered, bartered, exchanged,
delivered, or given away by use of a vending or coin operated machine or device
to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   Use Of Identification Card: No person under the age of eighteen (18)
years in furtherance or facilitation of obtaining smoking accessories and
smoking herbs shall display or use a false or forged identification card or
transfer, alter or deface an identification card.
   F.   Warning To Minors: Any person, firm, partnership, company or
corporation operating a place of business where tobacco accessories and smoking
herbs are sold or offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the
premises a sign upon which there shall be imprinted the following statement:
"SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS
OF AGE OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS PROHIBITED BY
LAW". The sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters at least one-
half inch (1/2") in height.
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of an offense and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense. For a second
or subsequent offense, any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 685 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 130 et seq.
3 3. 35 ILCS 135 et seq.
5-2-5: OFFENSES CONCERNING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND MINORS:
   A.   Definitions:
    ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
   IDENTIFICATION CARD: A written, printed or photostatic document issued by or
represented to be issued by a public officer of a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, in the performance of
his or her official duties and evidencing the age and identity of a person,
including, without limitation, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registration certificate issued under the federal selective service act, or an
identification card issued by the United States armed forces to a member
thereof.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by
a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian, or given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act of
1987 1 .
   MINOR: A person who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
   PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
   VEHICLE OR PREMISES: Any privately owned and operated motor vehicle,
conveyance or vessel; any house or apartment; any hotel, motel or bed and
breakfast room or any similar premises to which the general public is not
normally admitted.
   B.   Prohibitions Regarding Minors: Subject to the exceptions set forth in
subsection C of this section:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, deliver, dispense
or furnish alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give, deliver, dispense or furnish such
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to purchase, obtain, receive, accept, have in his or her possession or
control, sell, give, deliver, mix, dispense, serve, furnish or consume
alcoholic liquor.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years within the village of Riverwoods to be under the influence of alcohol, or
under the influence of cannabis listed in the cannabis control act, or under
the influence of a controlled substance listed in the Illinois controlled
substances act or under the influence of an intoxicating compound listed in the
use of intoxicating compounds act. A person under the age of twenty one (21)
years within the village of Riverwoods shall be considered to be under the
influence of alcohol if the alcohol concentration in the person's blood or
breath is more than 0.00 based on the definition of blood and breath units in
section 11-501.2 of the Illinois rules of the road, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-100 et seq.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to misrepresent his or her age to circumvent the provisions of this
section, including, without limitation, presenting or offering to any person
any identification card that is false, fraudulent, forged or not actually his
or her own identification card.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to possess or use any identification card that is false, fraudulent,
forged or the identification card of another or to obtain an identification
card by means of false information.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, deliver or
furnish to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years any identification
card that is false, fraudulent, forged, or of another person.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to forge, alter or deface any
identification card.
      9.   It shall be unlawful for any retail liquor dealer's licensee, or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee,
to suffer, permit or allow any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be or remain on such licensee's licensed premises, or in any room or
compartment adjoining or adjacent to such licensed premises.
      10.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of, or other person having
control over, any vehicle or premises to knowingly initiate, suffer, permit or
allow one or more occupants, invitees, visitors, guests, trespassers or other
persons under the age of twenty one (21) years to assemble or be assembled in
such vehicle or premises in possession of any alcoholic liquor in violation of
this section.
      11.   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, or pay for, any hotel,
motel or bed and breakfast room or facility from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of, or with knowledge that, such room or facility shall
be used for consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years.
      12.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a minor to
knowingly suffer, permit or allow such minor to violate any provision of this
chapter.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   The possession, mixing, dispensing and serving, or consumption of
alcoholic liquor by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years in the
performance of a bona fide religious service or ceremony is not prohibited by
this section.
      2.   The possession, mixing, dispensing and serving, or consumption of
alcoholic liquor by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years under the
direct supervision and approval of a parent or legal guardian in the privacy of
such parent's or legal guardian's residence is not prohibited by this section;
provided, however, that his exception shall not be extended to any other
occupant, invitee, visitor or guest that is under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
      3.   The possession and serving of alcoholic liquor by a person under the
age of twenty one (21) years as an employee of any licensee under this code in
such licensee's licensed premises is not prohibited by this section; provided,
however, that this exception shall not extend to those persons under the age of
nineteen (19) years nor shall this exception extend to the mixing or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor, or to bartending, by any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years.
      4.   The possession and delivery of any alcoholic liquor in its original
package and not for consumption on the premises where sold by a person under
the age of twenty one (21) years as an employee of any licensee under this
chapter or pursuant to the order of his or her parent or legal guardian is not
prohibited by this section.
      5.   The location or assembly of any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years in any retail premises licensed under this chapter or in any room or
compartment adjoining or adjacent to any such licensed premises is not
prohibited by this section if such person is accompanied by his or her parent
or legal guardian; or if such licensed premises derives its principal business
from the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic liquor; or if such
person under the age of twenty one (21) years is an employee of any licensee
under this chapter in such licensee's licensed premises whose duties do not
include the mixing or dispensing of alcoholic liquor or bartending and, if
under the age of nineteen (19) years, whose duties do not include the handling
or serving of alcoholic liquors.
      6.   The action or omission to act of any person at the express lawful,
or apparently lawful, direction of a law enforcement officer in the performance
of his or her official duties is not prohibited by this section.
   D.   Presumption Of Knowledge:
      1.   Presence In Vehicle Or Premises: Whenever a person is present within
any vehicle or premises of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee,
bailee, legal possessor or occupier thereof at the time that a violation of the
provisions of this section is occurring and has not informed the police
thereof, it shall be prima facie evidence that such person had knowledge of
such violation.
      2.   Failure To Control Access: An owner, lessee, permittee, bailee,
legal possessor or occupant of any vehicle or premises shall be deemed to have
permitted such vehicle or premises to be used in violation of this section if
he or she knowingly authorizes such use or enables such use to occur by failing
to control access to such vehicle or premises or to the alcoholic liquor
maintained therein.
      3.   Parental Residence: Every parent or legal guardian of any minor
whose residence is used by any occupant, invitee, visitor, guest or other
person under the age of twenty one (21) years in a manner that constitutes a
violation of this section shall be presumed to have permitted the conduct that
constitutes the violation unless the contrary is established by a preponderance
of the evidence.
   E.   Reliance On Identification Card: Proof that any person demanded, was
shown and reasonably relied upon an identification card evidencing the identity
of a person and that such person is of lawful age in any transaction prohibited
by this section is an affirmative defense in any criminal prosecution therefor,
in any prosecution for a violation of this section, or in any proceedings for
the suspension or revocation of any license, or the imposition of any fine or
penalty based thereon; provided, however, that it shall not be an affirmative
defense if such person accepted the identification card knowing it to be false,
fraudulent, forged or the identification card of another person. (Ord. 02-3-7,
3-5-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
5-2-6: INCITING VIOLATIONS BY MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including a parent or legal guardian, to
knowingly or wilfully cause, aid or encourage any minor to violate or attempt
to violate the provisions of this chapter or to knowingly or wilfully act in
such a manner as to directly tend to cause a minor to violate or attempt to
violate such provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-2-7: IMPROPER SUPERVISION OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
who resides with such parent or legal guardian to fail to make all reasonable,
necessary and effective efforts to prevent such minor from violating the
provisions of this chapter. If, after written notice is given by a member of
the Riverwoods police department to any such parent or legal guardian of any
such violation by such minor, there is a continued or repeated violation by
such minor, such parent or legal guardian shall be guilty of a violation of
this section unless such parent or legal guardian shall have first notified the
Riverwoods police department in writing of his or her inability to prevent such
continued or repeated violation and shall request the Riverwoods police
department or the proper public authority to take the necessary legal
proceedings toward having such minor declared and dealt with as a delinquent
minor. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-2-8: DISORDERLY ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who occupies a residence within the
village knowingly to authorize, permit or enable such residence to be used for
a gathering of two (2) or more persons where any one or more of the persons is
under twenty one (21) years of age and the following factors apply:
      1.   The person occupying the residence knows that any such other person
under the age of twenty one (21) years is in possession of or is consuming any
alcoholic beverage or cannabis; and
      2.   The possession or consumption of the alcohol or cannabis by the
person under twenty one (21) years of age is not otherwise permitted by the
laws of the State of Illinois.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a residence within the village to
knowingly authorize, permit, enable, cause, host, condone or suffer to occur
any gathering at such residence in violation of subsection A of this section or
any other disorderly assembly of persons at such residence that endangers the
peace and safety of the residents of the village. For the purpose of this
section, the term "owner" shall mean a person either leasing, residing in, or
in any way exerting control over any real property within the village. Acts
that are hereby declared to threaten the health and safety of the residents of
the village and that, when committed by persons in assembly, are hereby
declared to constitute a disorderly assembly include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under
the age of twenty one (21) years, intoxicated persons and others prohibited by
village ordinance and/or Illinois statute from possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
      2.   Use or clear evidence of use of cannabis or other controlled
substances prohibited by village ordinance and/or Illinois statute.
      3.   Illegal use or possession of fireworks as defined in 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35/1.
      4.   Fighting, battery, assaults or threats, or the throwing of objects
capable of causing physical injury or property damage.
      5.   Depositing of trash, garbage or hazardous material upon public or
private property, excepting trash or garbage other than household hazardous
waste that is deposited in a proper receptacle approved for disposal of trash.
      6.   Trespass of person on parked vehicles by persons attending such
assemblage upon private property.
      7.   Such circumstances and conditions which, taken as a whole,
constitute a condition of encouraging and contributing to the delinquency of
minors.
   C.   Upon being given notice by any member of the police department of the
existence of any of the activities set forth in subsection B of this section,
such owner shall immediately act to terminate the assemblage. Failure to do so
shall constitute a further violation of this section. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002;
amd. Ord. 20-09-17, 9-15-2020)
5-2-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of section
5-2-5,
5-2-6,
5-2-7 or
5-2-8 of this chapter shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense
except where a specific penalty is limited by state statute. Each day's
continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
receiving punishment by monetary fines, any person violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
   A.   A period of conditional discharge not to exceed one year.
      1.   The conditions of a conditional discharge shall include that the
defendant:
         a.   Not violate any criminal statute or quasi-criminal ordinance of
any jurisdiction; and
         b.   Report to and appear in person before such person or agency as
directed by the court.
      2.   The conditions of conditional discharge may, in addition, require
that the defendant:
         a.   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
         b.   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment, or treatment for drug
addiction or alcoholism;
         c.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed actual
loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss;
         d.   If a minor, to reside with his parent or in a foster home; attend
school; attend a nonresidential program for youth; or contribute to his own
support at home or in a foster home; and
         e.   Perform court approved public or community service.
   B.   When a court orders restitution or reparation as a condition for a
conditional discharge, the court shall determine the amount and conditions of
payment. When the conditions of payment have not been satisfied, the court, at
any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of conditional
discharge may impose an additional period of not more than two (2) years. Only
the conditions of payment shall continue to apply during such additional
period. The court shall retain all of the incidents of the original sentence,
including the authority to modify or enlarge the original conditions and to
revoke the penalty of conditional discharge if the conditions of payment are
violated during such additional period.
   C.   When a petition is filed charging a violation of a condition imposed
for conditional discharge, the court:
      1.   May order a summons to the offender to appear; or order a warrant
for the offender's arrest where there is danger of his fleeing the jurisdiction
or causing serious harm to others or when the offender fails to answer a
summons. The issuance of such warrant or summons shall stay the sentence of
conditional discharge until the final determination of the charge, and the term
of conditional discharge shall not run so long as the offender has not answered
the summons or warrant.
      2.   Shall conduct a hearing of the alleged violation. The court may
admit the offender to bail pending the hearing.
      3.   Shall receive evidence in open court with the right of
confrontation, cross examination and representation by counsel. The village has
the burden of going forward with the evidence and proving the violation by the
preponderance of the evidence.
      4.   Shall not revoke a conditional discharge for failure to comply with
conditions of a sentence that imposes financial obligations upon the offender
unless such failure is due to his wilful refusal to pay.
      5.   May modify the conditions of a conditional discharge on motion of
the village or on its own motion or at the request of the offender after notice
to all parties and a hearing.
   D.   If the court finds that the offender has violated a condition at any
time prior to the expiration or termination of the period, it may continue the
offender on the existing period, with or without modifying or enlarging the
conditions, or may impose any other penalty that was available at the time of
the initial penalty.
   E.   A judgment revoking probation or conditional discharge is a final
appealable order. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
5-2-10: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR UNPAID PENALTIES:
   A.   The corporate authorities hereby find that assemblies of unsupervised
minors from time to time have been organized in violation of the village's
curfew requirements and prohibitions against disorderly assemblies, and that
such assemblies have been conducted in a manner that promotes unlawful
intoxication and disorderly conduct within the village, thus resulting in
damage to real and personal property within the village and posing a threat to
the value of property within the village, and also threatening the general
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village, and the corporate
authorities recognize the need to provide the means to eliminate such problems
in order to prevent intoxication, quarreling, and disorderly assemblies and to
ensure the safety of the property and residents of the village. The corporate
authorities further find that increased parental responsibility is essential
for the effective control and elimination of disorderly assemblies by
unsupervised minors. Furthermore, the corporate authorities find that it is in
the best interests of the village that such acts be prosecuted by the village
as a local offense; that penalties therefor be imposed which are related to the
nature of the act and the type of offender; and that parents or legal guardians
of minors found guilty of such acts be held responsible for any monetary
penalty or order of restitution or reparation imposed. The diligent pursuit of
such interest will tend to increase parental supervision of minors and reduce
the incidence of disorderly assemblies at which intoxication, fighting, noise,
disturbances and other disorderly conduct is prevalent, thus advancing the
welfare of residents of the village.
   B.   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with
such parent or legal guardian shall be liable for any fine, condition or
restriction imposed by a court upon such minor for a violation of any provision
of this code, but only if: 1) such minor has not paid the fine or made
restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court and 2) said
parent or legal guardian has been served with summons or notice to appear in
the original cause as provided by law. (Ord. 02-3-7, 3-5-2002)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Proclamation, Orders and Regulations
5-3-3: Effective Date and Termination
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or a threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to execute
by two (2) or more persons acting together without authority of law.
   B.   Any man-made calamity within the Village resulting in the death or
injury of persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against a person walking, running, standing or motoring
upon a street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the Village,
excepting persons officially designated to duty relating to the civil emergency
and those persons who are in public places by reason of their employment or a
private emergency involving health, safety or protection of property.
5-3-2: PROCLAMATION, ORDERS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   When in the judgment of the President and the Board, a civil emergency
as defined in Section
5-3-1 is deemed to exist, they shall forthwith proclaim in writing the
existence of same.
   B.   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the President and the Board,
they may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
Village or to the Village as a whole, as they deem advisable, and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as they deem necessary in the interest of
the public safety and welfare.
   C.   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the President and the Board
may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      2.   Order the closing of all public places where liquor is served;
      3.   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      4.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer and/or liquor;
      5.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving way
gasoline or other flammable or combustible liquids or products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      6.   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of flammable or
combustible liquids or products;
      7.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      8.   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving
away of firearms and/or ammunition;
      9.   Order that no person shall carry, possess or use any club, brick or
gasoline filled bottle or container with a fuse-type wick inserted in the neck,
or gasoline or petroleum base fire-bomb or other incendiary missile or weapon
who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the persons or property
of another;
      10.   Order if deemed necessary, the closing of any and all business,
commercial and industrial establishments;
      11.   Call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the Village to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace;
      12.   Designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas
closed to motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic; and
      13.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
5-3-3: EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION:
Upon filing with the Clerk the proclamation as provided in Section
5-3-1 shall become effective, having the force of law and it shall remain in
full force and effect until it has been terminated by filing a copy of the
termination with the Clerk by the President and the Board. (Ord. 259, 4-18-77)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense except where a specific penalty is provided for in a specific
section hereof or is limited by State Statute. (Ord. 259, 4-18-77; amd. 1982
Code)
CHAPTER 4
DISEASED AND HAZARDOUS TREES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions:
5-4-2: Diseased Trees; Inspection Reports
5-4-3: Regulated Articles
5-4-4: Inspection of Trees
5-4-5: Duty to Maintain Trees
5-4-6: Duty to Abate Nuisance
5-4-7: Removal Costs; Lien by Village
5-4-8: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when
used in this chapter.
 
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY SERVICES: As defined in section
                                8-2-1 of this code.
                                Any tree (or portion thereof) which is
                                determined by the village forester to be dead,
                                dying, uprooted, unstable, or having a
                                structural defect and which, as a result of any
                                of the foregoing, has a significant risk of
                                being injurious to persons or property.
                                Examples of hazardous trees are trees which
HAZARDOUS TREES:                have fallen on houses or power lines or block
                                safe passage of, or obstruct, in whole or in
                                part, streets, easements or bicycle paths, or
                                which threaten to do so after having become
                                uprooted or unstable as a result of
                                construction activities, disease, age or severe
                                weather, including a tornado, windstorm, flood,
                                freeze, or other natural disaster.
                                One or more of the legal or beneficial owners
OWNER:                          of any lot or parcel of land in the village and
                                any adult family members, guests, or tenants
                                occupying the real estate in question.
                                Any insects at any living state of development,
                                any quarantines materials such as wood products
                                including, but not limited to chips, limbs,
REGULATED ARTICLES:             lumber, firewood or any other product or means
                                of conveyance which may be determined by
                                federal or state departments of agriculture to
                                pose a risk of spread of any infestation or
                                infection.
                                The costs incurred by the village to abate any
REMOVAL COSTS:                  nuisance by trimming, removing or destroying a
                                hazardous tree or regulated articles.
                                The owner who is charged with the duty of
                                pruning or removing or otherwise abating a
                                nuisance caused by a tree for which such owner
                                is deemed responsible by virtue of being the
                                owner of the property where the tree is
                                located. A tree is located at the place where
                                its trunk exits the ground (and the place where
RESPONSIBLE OWNER:              the trunk exits is dispositive, not the spread
                                of roots or leaf canopy), provided that when
                                the trunk straddles a property line, the tree
                                is deemed a boundary tree owned by the owners
                                on each side of the property line. The owner of
                                a tree that has fallen across a street remains
                                the responsible owner of that tree although the
                                final resting position of the tree may occupy a
                                portion of another owner's property.
                                A trained forester/arborist who is engaged to
VILLAGE FORESTER:               advise the village on matters arising under
                                this chapter.
 
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-2: DISEASED TREES; INSPECTION REPORTS:
   A.   Elm And Ash Trees: The following trees have been declared public
nuisances by the state of Illinois, but the mandatory removal of such trees
shall not be required in the village provided the state of Illinois does not
require such removal, but removal is required if such trees are declared to be
hazardous trees pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   All species and varieties of elm tree (trees of genus Ulmus)
infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease (Certostomella ulmi) as
determined by laboratory analysis by the section of applied botany and plant
pathology, Illinois natural history survey, or by laboratories approved by such
agency.
      2.   All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or
substantially dead, and all dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached,
which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for the
European elm bark beetle (Scolytus multisriatus) and the native elm bark beetle
(Hylurgopinus rufpies).
      3.   All species and varieties of ash tree (Fraxinus spp) of any size
infected with the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) in any
living stage of development, as determined by the village forester.
      4.   All species and varieties of ash trees of any size that are dead or
substantially dead, and all dead ashwood to which the bark is still attached,
which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for the
emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) in any living stage of
development.
   B.   Oak Trees: Any tree of the species of oak having the appearance of or
suspected of being affected with the fungus Bretziella fagacearum (formerly
called Ceratocystis fagacearum), commonly called oak wilt, and/or trees
infested with conifer bark beetles are hereby deemed to be a public nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit or maintain on such owner's land,
any oak tree which is determined under this chapter to be a public nuisance,
and it shall be the duty of any such owner promptly to remove from the village
any such oak tree.
   C.   Inspection For Disease: When requested in writing by the director of
community services upon advice of the village forester in the case of a
suspected infestation of trees, each owner shall be required, within 30 days
after such request has been delivered or mailed to them, to have an inspection
on any tree(s) located on such private property by a qualified forestry
professional in order to determine whether any diseased elm tree(s) and/or tree
(s) infested with the Emerald Ash Borer, or any tree of the species of oak
having the appearance of or suspected of being affected with the fungus
Bretziella fagacearum, commonly called "oak wilt," exists on such parcel of
land. Written report(s) of the results of such inspection shall also be
provided to the village within such thirty (30) day period. The inspection and
report shall include the marking and photographing of any tree(s) found to be
diseased elm tree(s), tree(s) infested with the Emerald Ash Borer, and/or any
tree(s) affected with the oak wilt.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-3: REGULATED ARTICLES:
   It shall be illegal to move out of established quarantine zone(s) regulated
articles unless those articles have met all requirements of the local, federal
and state regulatory agencies. It shall be illegal for any person or entity,
including the village, to transfer from a quarantine zone into a non-quarantine
zone any regulated articles. Any person or entity found to be in violation of
any local, state or federal regulations related to tree infestations or
infections shall be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. All contractors
working within and near any quarantine zone(s) are required to comply with the
quarantine regulations and supply records that may be required for inspection
to the village, county, state or federal agencies upon request.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-4: INSPECTION OF TREES:
   A.   The director of community services is responsible for the enforcement
of this chapter and coordination with the village forester with regard to
obtaining findings of hazardous or diseased trees. In order to carry out the
purposes of this chapter and to implement the enforcement thereof, the village
forester, its agents and employees may be directed in accordance with
applicable law to enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the village at all
reasonable hours, for the purpose of inspecting any tree that is suspected of
being a hazardous tree or diseased tree regulated by this chapter, and they may
remove such specimens from any such trees as are required for the purpose of
determining whether such trees are public nuisances under the provisions of
this chapter, or to determine whether regulated articles are located on any
such lot or parcel of land or have been removed from any such lot or parcel of
land in violation of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall require the
village forester to investigate properties in the village for the presence of
hazardous trees except as requested by the village.
   B.   To the extent provided by applicable law, it shall be unlawful for any
person to take any action to prevent the village forester, its agents or
employees from entering on any lot or parcel of land in the village for the
purpose of such inspection, or to interfere with either of them, in the
performance of any of their duties provided for under the provisions of this
chapter. When the village forester is unable to arrange for the voluntary entry
onto private property for the purpose of inspecting the trees thereon, the
director of community services shall seek the necessary authorization to make
or cause entry to be made onto the property.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-5: DUTY TO MAINTAIN TREES:
   All trees standing on private property shall be maintained in such a manner
as to pose no significant risk of being injurious to persons or property when
traveling upon any sidewalk, walking path, public way or private street with
shared use. Any tree on private property that overhangs any sidewalk, bicycle
path, public way or private street in such a manner as to impede or interfere
with use thereof shall be trimmed or removed by the responsible owner so that
the obstruction or danger is removed. In the case of overhanging limbs or
branches, the same shall be kept trimmed so as to project at a height of not
less than eight (8) feet above any sidewalk or bicycle path and not less than
fifteen (15) feet above any public way or private street.
   The responsible owner of any tree or limb that has fallen or become likely
to fall on or across private street shall cause such tree or limb to be removed
promptly. If the responsible owner fails to remove said trees and limbs after
receipt of notice to remove served pursuant to this chapter, the village may
perform the necessary removal and all costs incurred therefor shall be assessed
against such owner. If the hazard constitutes an immediate public safety
concern, the village may perform the necessary removal work immediately and all
costs incurred therefor shall be assessed against the responsible owner.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-6: DUTY TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   A.   The village forester may make findings of hazardous trees under this
chapter and communicate such findings to the director of community services.
All tree so found to be hazardous or which must be pruned or removed to comply
with section 5-4-5 are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be
the duty of each responsible owner to abate such public nuisance.
   B.   If a tree is a public nuisance that should be pruned or removed, the
director of community services may order the removal of the tree or pruning as
necessary to abate the nuisance by the responsible owner and, for that purpose,
shall serve or cause to be served upon the person that is owner of the lot or
parcel of land on which such hazardous tree or regulated articles are located,
a written notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. The notice shall describe the reason for the nuisance designation and
location of the affected trees and shall state that unless the hazardous tree
or limb is removed or pruned on or before the date stated in the notice, the
hazardous tree or limb shall be removed at the property owner's expense. Notice
to abate a public nuisance under this chapter shall be delivered by personal
service or by certified mail addressed to the property owner or the occupant,
or to the person to whom, and at the address to which, the tax bill was sent
for the general taxes for the last preceding year on the lot or parcel on which
the nuisance is located.
   C.   The date for compliance stated in the notice shall be not less than
forty- five (45) days after the date of delivery or mailing of the notice,
provided that the notice may request more prompt attention in case of an
immediate public safety concern. If the owner's timely response is not feasible
due to an immediate public safety concern, the village may act immediately to
abate or remove the nuisance but shall provide notice to the owner as soon as
feasible. The owner for good cause may submit a request for extension of time
to remove the nuisance, which may be granted at the discretion of the director
of community services.
   D.   The owner receiving notice to abate a nuisance under this chapter may
request that the same be done by the village, at the owner's expense, and the
owner shall be relieved of such duty if the village agrees to perform the work
and the owner reimburses the village for the cost thereof. Nothing in this
chapter shall obligate the village to perform such work. Whenever the village
performs such work on behalf of the owner, the cost of such removal activity
shall be assessed to the responsible owner.
   E.   If within forty-five (45) days after service of notice to abate a
nuisance under this chapter (or within such adjusted time for compliance if an
extension has been granted), the person to whom such notice is given fails,
neglects or refuses to comply with the notice, then 1) the village may seek
penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter, including
issuance of a violation notice to such person requiring appearance at a hearing
conducted under the administrative adjudication division, and/or 2) if the
village has not already acted due to an immediate public safety concern, the
village may proceed to abate any nuisance by trimming, removing or destroying
such hazardous tree or regulated articles and assess the removal costs thereof
against the record owner of such lot or parcel of land by providing an invoice
specifying the removal activity and costs. The assessment of removal costs
against the responsible owner shall be in addition to the penalties imposed
under this chapter for any violation or noncompliance with the provisions
hereof.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-7: REMOVAL COSTS; LIEN BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Any removal costs incurred by the village in the abatement of a public
nuisance as declared in this chapter and invoiced to the record owner of the
land involved shall be paid to the village within thirty (30) days after the
date of such invoice. If the village's invoice for removal costs is not paid
within the time provided, such removal costs shall be deemed and are hereby
declared to be delinquent, and the village may pursue legal action to collect
the removal costs and all village-incurred legal fees and costs associated with
the legal action and may file a lien against the owner's property to secure
repayment of such fees and costs.
   B.   To perfect a lien for removal costs, the village shall give notice
personally on, or by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax
bill for the general taxes on the property for the taxable year immediately
preceding the remedial activities, setting forth the facts contained in the
notice of lien and the relevant provisions of this chapter, and file its notice
of lien in the recording division of Lake County Clerk. The notice shall be a
sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, including the identification of the real estate by
common description; 2) the amount of the removal costs; 3) a description of the
removal activities and the date or dates when such removal costs were incurred
by the village; and 4) a statement that a lien has been filed pursuant to
applicable provisions of this chapter and/or the applicable provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7, 11-20-12, 11-20-15, or 11-20-15.1.
   C.   The village will release the lien created under this chapter upon
payment by the responsible owner of the removal costs and village-incurred
legal fees and costs associated with the legal action, and the release will be
filed of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
5-4-8: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each offense. Each day's continued violation after more than ten
(10) days have passed since the initial violation shall be deemed a separate
offense. The failure to trim, remove or abate each nuisance tree that has been
declared a public nuisance pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense for each such tree.
(Ord. 24-09-12, 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title
5-6-2: Findings Of The Board Of Trustees
5-6-3: Intent And Purpose
5-6-4: Definitions
5-6-5: General Regulation
5-6-6: Residential Lighting Standards
5-6-7: Exemptions
5-6-8: Penalties
5-6-9: Conflict; Severability
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the RESIDENTIAL OUTDOOR
LIGHTING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-2: FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   A primary goal of the Village of Riverwoods, as set forth in its
Comprehensive Plan, is to maintain its character as a semirural, residential
community that places special emphasis on maintaining and enjoying the benefits
of its natural environment. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
   B.   The Village of Riverwoods has emphasized its commitment to maintaining
its native woodlands and wildlife and unique character by, among other acts,
adoption of the Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance. (Ord. 06-2-
4, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
   C.   Excessive and improper outdoor illumination in residential districts
detracts from the residential character and natural environment of the Village,
and an important attribute of such natural environment consists of darkness at
night and a reduced level of artificial illumination as contrasted with more
urbanized areas.
   D.   Excessive or improper lighting in residential districts creates
discomfort glare, visual clutter, light trespass and urban sky glow which can
distract the attention of drivers of motor vehicles and interfere with the use
and enjoyment of adjoining properties, thereby posing significant risks for
public safety and the health and welfare of the Village's residents. (Ord. 06-
2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-3: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the stated policy of the Village to encourage lighting practices and
systems which will: minimize light pollution, discomfort glare, light trespass;
conserve energy and resources while maintaining nighttime safety, utility,
security, and productivity; and curtail the degradation of the nighttime visual
environment. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
DECORATIVE LIGHT: A light fixture that is intended to provide moderate or low
illumination with a light source that is surrounded by frosted or colored
glass, acrylic or other opaque material so that the fixture illuminates the
area but causes no discomfort glare. Examples of decorative lights include
coach lights above garage doors, lanterns, driveway entry light features, and
accent lighting for walkways and landscaping.
DISCOMFORT GLARE: The discomfort experienced by an observer with a direct line
of sight to an artificial light source on another property which is of
sufficient intensity to cause annoyance, discomfort, diminution in visual
acuity or visual impairment, whether temporary or permanent, or which is of a
sufficient intensity to constitute an unreasonable interference with the quiet
enjoyment of another's home or property.
FACADE FIXTURE: A light fixture that is located with no direct line of sight to
the light source when viewed from another property, that is installed no higher
than two feet (2') above the ground, and that is aimed solely against the
facades of the principal structure located on a lot.
FLOODLIGHT: A light fixture which projects light in a specific direction in a
wide beam, typically one hundred degrees (100°) or more.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illuminance on a surface that is equal to one lumen per
square foot.
FULLY SHIELDED FIXTURE: A light fixture that is shielded, constructed or
located so that: a) there is no direct line of sight to its light source when
viewed from another property (whether viewed when trees are leafed out or after
leaves have fallen) and b) no light is emitted by the installed fixture into
the open sky above the horizontal plane running through the lowest point of the
fixture where light is emitted.
LAMP OR LIGHT SOURCE: An electrically powered illuminating device that provides
a source of illumination; typically, a bulb, with a glass, acrylic or other
envelope and metal base enclosing a filament or arc tube and electrodes.
LIGHT TRESPASS: The light projected onto a property from a light fixture not
located on that property.
LUMEN: A measure of the amount of light available from a light source
equivalent to the light emitted by one candle (as distinct from "watt", a
measure of power consumption). A lamp's light output rating expresses the total
amount of light emitted in all directions per unit time. Ratings of initial
light output provided by manufacturers express the total light output after one
hundred (100) hours of operation. For example, while, a one hundred (100) watt
incandescent lamp emits approximately one thousand seven hundred fifty (1,750)
initial lumens, a twenty five (25) watt compact fluorescent lamp emits
approximately the same initial lumens.
LUMINAIRE OR LIGHT FIXTURE: A complete outdoor lighting unit consisting of a
lamp or lamps together with the parts designed to distribute the light, to
position and protect the lamps and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
For purposes of determining the total light output from a light fixture,
lighting assemblies or luminaires which include multiple unshielded or
partially shielded lamps on a single pole or standard shall be considered as a
single unit.
SECURITY LIGHT: A spotlight or floodlight which is motion detector activated
and which cycles off in less than five (5) minutes.
SPOTLIGHT: A bulb or light fixture which projects light in a specific direction
in a narrow beam, typically forty five degrees (45°) or less.
TREE MOUNTED LIGHT: A light fixture mounted in a tree so that there is no
direct line of sight to its light source when viewed from another property.
(Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-5: GENERAL REGULATION:
It is unlawful for any person to install, erect, maintain or operate any
floodlight, spotlight, security light or other form or type of light fixture in
any residential zoning district of the village of Riverwoods in such a manner
that the light rays from such floodlight, spotlight, security light or other
light fixture fail to conform with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
Further, it is unlawful for any person to install, erect, maintain or operate
any floodlight, spotlight, security light or other form or type of light
fixture within the limits of the village of Riverwoods in such manner that the
light from such fixture may distract the attention of any vehicle driver from
the operation of a vehicle in a safe and prudent manner. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-
2006)
5-6-6: RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Shielding And Illumination Limits: All floodlights, spotlights,
security lights or other form or type of outdoor light fixture in any
residential zoning district of the village shall be installed as fully shielded
fixtures, except for: 1) tree mounted lights, 2) decorative lights, 3) facade
lights and 4) security lights, which must meet the following conditions:
      1.   For tree mounted lights, there must be no direct line of sight to
the light source when viewed from another property (as if they were fully
shielded). Light rays shall be directed inward against the vertical axis of the
trunk. Downward illumination shall be required of all new tree mounted lights
installed after the effective date hereof. Tree mounted lights shall not be
operated after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   For decorative light fixtures, the illumination intensity of each
light fixture must be one thousand two hundred (1,200) lumens or less. No
decorative light fixture may be installed higher than eight feet (8') above the
ground.
      3.   Facade lights must be aimed in such a manner that there must be no
direct line of sight to the light source when viewed from another property (as
if they were fully shielded).
      4.   Security lights must be directed and partially shielded if necessary
so that the center beam of the light source is aimed at a point at least thirty
feet (30') from any property line and no higher than forty five degrees (45°)
below the horizontal. The illumination intensity of any security light shall be
two thousand eight hundred (2,800) lumens or less, and there shall be no more
than two (2) security lights on any lot. No security light fixture may be
installed higher than twelve feet (12') above the ground.
   B.   Distance From Property Line: An outdoor light fixture shall not be
located closer to the property line than a distance equal to three (3) times
the fixture's mounting height above the grade measured at the property line,
except for decorative lights mounted on driveway entrance columns or posts.
   C.   Minimizing Light Trespass: All outdoor lighting fixtures located within
residential districts be located, aimed, or shielded so as to minimize stray
light trespassing across property boundaries. Compliance with these
restrictions to avoid unnecessary glare shall be achieved with fixture
shielding, directional control designed into the fixture, fixture location,
fixture height, fixture aim, or a combination of these factors. For example,
shielded light fixtures mounted on the principal or accessory structures shall
be directed downward or in towards the structure. Lighting fixtures installed
in the ground shall be directed in towards the principal structure or toward
landscaping features but in any event away from the property line. Light
fixtures installed in trees shall be designed to minimize light spilling from
the trees onto adjoining properties. The installation of all outdoor light
fixtures shall be made in accordance with the village's building code. The
maximum illumination provided by any light source located on any lot in a
residential zoning district, when measured at any point from any adjacent
residential lot, shall not exceed 0.1 horizontal foot-candle or 0.1 vertical
foot-candle.
   D.   Prohibited Lights: Searchlights, laser source lights, or any similar
high intensity light shall not be permitted, except in emergencies by police
and fire personnel or at their direction. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The temporary use of low wattage or low voltage lighting for public
festivals, celebrations, and the observance of holidays are exempt from
shielding requirements except when they create a hazard or nuisance from
discomfort glare. However, consideration to light trespass requirements shall
be demonstrated.
   B.   All nonconforming outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally
installed on or before the effective date hereof shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Any light fixture which is a source of discomfort glare or light
trespass and any light installation which allows for the re-aiming of the
fixture shall be brought into compliance without delay.
      2.   Lighting found by the village or any other governmental agency to
create public hazard can be ordered removed or altered at any time.
      3.   Upon repair or replacement of any component of any light fixture, or
relocation of any light fixture, that light fixture shall be brought in
compliance with the terms of this chapter at the completion of the repair or
replacement.
      4.   Upon installation of any new light fixture, this chapter shall fully
apply. An inventory of existing lighting submitted by the applicant will be
required when the application for installing new luminaire(s) is made.
      5.   Upon the transfer of ownership of an existing property, the
exemption shall expire and all terms of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 06-2-4,
2-21-2006)
5-6-8: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation,
and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
day that such violation exists. In addition to any fine permitted or required
to be imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an
actual or threatened violation of this chapter, and may also seek mandatory
injunctive relief to require the owner of the lot in question to bring such lot
into compliance with this chapter by removing any unlawful outdoor light
fixtures installed in violation of this chapter, the corporate authorities
finding that the village and the health, safety and welfare of its residents
will be irreparably harmed by the failure to observe the maximum covered area
allowances set forth herein, and that the imposition of a fine alone is an
inadequate remedy for such violations. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
5-6-9: CONFLICT; SEVERABILITY:
In the event of a conflict between conflicting sections of this chapter, the
more stringent requirement shall apply. If any of the provisions of this
chapter or the application thereof is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the chapter which can be given
effect, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter are declared to be
severable. (Ord. 06-2-4, 2-21-2006)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-1: STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   The Illinois vehicle code being 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
through 5/20-402 be and it is hereby adopted as the vehicle code for the
village of Riverwoods.
   B.   Applicable provisions of said Illinois vehicle code shall be enforced
in accordance with their terms by the village of Riverwoods except as the
provisions of said code should be modified or repealed from time to time by
ordinance of the village of Riverwoods.
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of said Illinois
vehicle code shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each such offense unless a greater penalty is provided by said Illinois vehicle
code. (Ord. 86-5-9, 5-20-1986)
CHAPTER 2
WEIGHT AND AXLE LIMITATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Weight Limitations
6-2-2: Axle Limitations
6-2-3: Special Permit For Excess Weight; Application
6-2-1: WEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any public street within the
control of the village of Riverwoods, including Portwine Road (north of
Meredith Drive and south of Deerfield Road) and Saunders Road, having a weight
in excess of six (6) tons per axle, except that the police chief or his
designee may authorize a temporary permit for local deliveries when in his
judgment the loads are of a nondivisible nature and delivery by other means is
not practical. The weight limit for the portion of Portwine Road north of Lake
Cook Road and south of Meredith Drive shall be eight (8) tons per axle,
provided that the gross weight of the vehicle does not exceed sixty four
thousand (64,000) pounds. (Ord. 16-05-09, 5-3-2016)
6-2-2: AXLE LIMITATIONS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any public street within the
control of the village of Riverwoods, including Portwine Road and Saunders
Road, having more than two (2) axles, except for local deliveries. The police
chief or his designee may waive this axle limitation when an emergency exists
or other good cause is shown that observance of this limitation would be
impractical. (Ord. 05-7-12, 7-5-2005)
6-2-3: SPECIAL PERMIT FOR EXCESS WEIGHT; APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person desiring to obtain a special permit authorizing the
applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles with weight
of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum limitations set forth in this chapter
upon any public street within the control of the village shall submit an
application to the police department on forms prescribed by the police chief.
The application for any such permit shall specifically describe and identify
the vehicle or vehicles and loads to be operated or moved and the particular
streets for which permit to operate is requested, and whether such permit is
requested for a single trip or for continuous operation, and include the date
(s) and hours authorized.
   B.   If the police chief or his designee determine that the loads are of a
nondivisible nature and delivery by other means is not practical, they may
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles as described in the application, and with
such further conditions or limitations as they deem necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, including limiting or prescribing conditions
of operation of such vehicle or vehicles, when necessary to assure against
undue damage to the road foundations, surfaces or structures, and the permit
may require such undertaking or other security as may be deemed necessary to
compensate for any injury to any roadway or road surface. (Ord. 05-7-12, 7-5-
2005)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Parking Prohibited
6-3-2: Stop And Yield Intersections
6-3-3: Right Turns Prohibited
6-3-4: Left Turns Prohibited
6-3-5: Temporary Traffic Restrictions
6-3-6: Maximum Speed Limits
6-3-7: Speed Limit Signs
6-3-1: PARKING PROHIBITED:
Parking shall be prohibited in accordance with the provisions of this section
when signs are erected giving notice thereof and no person shall cause a motor
vehicle to stand or park on:
 
All roads of the village Between the hours of 3:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
                         From County Line Road to Riverwoods Road, except for
Portwine Road            attendance at village hall public meetings and
                         elections.
Saunders Road            From Riverwoods Road north to Duffy Lane.
 
(Ord. 86-9-19, 9-16-1986)
6-3-2: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to designate, with the
approval of the board of trustees, by proper official signs, any street or
portion thereof as a through street and requiring that all vehicles stop before
entering the same, or designating any intersection as a stop or yield
intersection and requiring all vehicles to stop or yield at one or more
entrances to the intersection. No vehicle shall be driven into or upon streets
or intersections where a stop sign has been erected, without first being
brought to a full stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if there is no crosswalk, before entering the intersection.
   B.   The chief of police shall cause a schedule of stop and yield
intersections to be filed with the village clerk and updated whenever a change
is made, provided that any change in the schedule shall not become effective
until thirty (30) days after the revised schedule is filed with the village
clerk and approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 15-08-13, 8-4-2015)
6-3-3: RIGHT TURNS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle to make right hand
turns:
 
Direction From            Onto          Between The Hours Of
                                        7:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M. on Mondays
Southerly Riverwoods Road Portwine Road through Fridays, except for operators
                                        of buses and other public
                                        transportation vehicles.
 
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to all of
the penalty provisions of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 11-10-25, 10-18-
2011)
6-3-4: LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle to make left hand
turns:
 
Direction From           Onto         Between The Hours Of
Northerly Deerfield Road Hoffman Lane 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M. on Mondays
                                      through Fridays.
 
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to all of
the penalty provisions of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 11-10-25, 10-18-
2011)
6-3-5: TEMPORARY TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The village board may impose restrictions upon any village street to
facilitate traffic flow and enhance public safety. Said restrictions may
include, but are not limited to, regulations prohibiting all but local traffic,
speed limitations, weight limitations or such other regulations as the
president and board of trustees may determine are necessary or appropriate for
the public safety.
   B.   Such restrictions shall be effective upon the adoption of a specific
resolution and the posting of said streets in the manner provided by such
resolution. All such restrictions may be enforced by a penalty not to exceed
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation. (Ord. 91-4-5, 4-16-1991)
6-3-6: MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
Pursuant to the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-604, and the
basis of previous traffic investigations, the president and board of trustees
of the village do hereby determine and declare that a reasonable and safe
absolute maximum speed limit for all vehicles traveling on all streets within
the village, other than Lake Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue, Duffy Lane,
Riverwoods Road, Deerfield Road and Saunders Road, is twenty (20) miles per
hour; provided, however, that the reasonable and safe absolute maximum speed
limit for all vehicles traveling on the following streets is twenty five (25)
miles per hour:
 
Street          Portion On Which 25 mph Speed Limit Applies
Kenilwood Court Entire length
Kenilwood Lane  Entire length
Portwine Road   Between Lake Cook Road and Riverwoods Road
Woodland Lane   Between Riverwoods Road and Crestwood Lane
 
The maximum speed limits for streets not posted as having a maximum speed limit
of twenty (20) or twenty five (25) miles per hour shall be as specified in the
Illinois vehicle code or as otherwise determined by the governmental authority
having jurisdiction thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any
vehicle on any street within the village at a speed exceeding the speed limits
established in this section where such speed limits are posted. Any person
violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to all of the penalty
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 11-10-25, 10-18-2011)
6-3-7: SPEED LIMIT SIGNS:
The village shall have the authority to erect or cause to be erected signs
giving notice of the maximum speed limit along village streets to which this
chapter applies as well as along those private streets with respect to which
the owners or road associations have entered into agreements with the village
pursuant to the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.1 of the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 11-10-25, 10-18-2011)
CHAPTER 4
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF STREET SIGNS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Public/Private Intersections
6-4-2: Private/Private Intersections
6-4-3: Sign Criteria
6-4-4: Cost to Private Owners and Associations
6-4-1: PUBLIC/PRIVATE INTERSECTIONS:
New street signs shall be installed and maintained by the Village at all
public/private intersections. (Ord. 92-3-3, 3-17-92)
6-4-2: PRIVATE/PRIVATE INTERSECTIONS:
Upon written request made by the owner(s) of private streets which intersect
with other private streets and the granting to the Village by such owner(s) of
easements for such purpose, the Village shall install and maintain new street
signs at such private/private intersections. (Ord. 92-3-3, 3-17-92)
6-4-3: SIGN CRITERIA:
New street signs installed pursuant to this Chapter shall use reflective white
letters on a green background. Such letters shall be four inches (4") in height
and the border of the background shall be at least one inch (1") in width, the
visibility of such signs shall be at least four hundred feet (400') unless a
curve in the road makes such visibility impractical to attain, and such signs
shall otherwise conform to the sign criteria used by the State of Illinois for
signs installed on state roads, as specified in the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. (Ord. 92-3-3, 3-17-92)
6-4-4: COSTS TO PRIVATE OWNERS AND ASSOCIATIONS:
To the extent not inconsistent with the criteria for new street signage set
forth in Section three of this Chapter, private road owners and associations
may request the Village to embellish or modify the standard signage which would
otherwise be provided by the Village, but any additional costs to acquire,
install or maintain such signs shall be borne by such private owners and
associations according to written agreements with the Village. (Ord. 92-3-3, 3-
17-92)
CHAPTER 5
PV TICKETS
SECTION:
6-5-1: PV Tickets
6-5-1: PV TICKETS:
   A.   Whenever a peace officer is authorized to arrest a person without a
warrant or otherwise observes a violation of any of the hereinafter designated
sections of the Village Code, said officer may issue a PV ticket in such form
as authorized by the Board of Trustees, which PV ticket may be settled and
compromised as hereinafter set forth. The PV ticket shall set forth the nature
of the violation and the date, time and location wherein the violation occurred
and shall be personally delivered to the alleged violator along with a notice
advising the violator of the settlement procedure and costs associated
therewith.
   B.   The PV ticket shall apply to violations of Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of Title
6 of the Village Code, except for those violations referenced in Chapter 1 of
Title 6 of the Village Code which are in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-601, speeding in excess of twenty one (21) miles per hour or
higher, or for any violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-100 et
seq., wherein Supreme Court Rule 551 requires a court appearance (Must Appear
Traffic Ticket).
   C.   Any person issued a PV ticket may settle and compromise the same within
fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance by going to the Village Hall with
a payment of a thirty dollars ($30.00) administrative fee to the Village. Any
person issued a PV ticket and who has not settled and compromised same from
fifteen (15) days to thirty five (35) days from the date of issuance of the
citation may do so by following the procedure set forth above and paying an
administrative fee of ten dollars ($10.00) in addition to the aforestated fees.
Any person who does not settle or compromise the PV ticket within the above
stated period may be processed with the filing of a complaint or notice for an
appearance in the Circuit Court of Lake County. (Ord. 95-11-13, 11-7-95)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Authority; Findings
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Impoundment Of Nuisance Vehicles; Administrative Penalty
6-6-4: Tow Notice
6-6-5: Hearing Notice; Failure To Request Hearing
6-6-6: Reclaiming Vehicle By Waiver Or By Posting Bond
6-6-7: Conduct Of Hearing; Reclaiming Vehicle After Hearing
6-6-8: Unclaimed Vehicles
6-6-1: AUTHORITY; FINDINGS:
The village of Riverwoods is a home rule unit pursuant to the Illinois
constitution of 1970. The corporate authorities make the following findings and
adopt the provisions of this chapter pursuant to the village's home rule
authority:
   A.   The commission of certain criminal and quasi-criminal offenses is made
more egregious by the use of motor vehicles in the commission of the offenses;
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village find that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Riverwoods that
owners and operators of motor vehicles are encouraged to conform their conduct
to the mandates of local, state and federal law;
   C.   The corporate authorities of the village find that a civil penalty for
certain violations will encourage compliance with the laws that are intended to
protect the citizens of the village from the harm associated with those
violations; and
   D.   The corporate authorities of the village, pursuant to the village's
home rule authority, find that the public health, safety and welfare will be
protected and promoted by adoption of this chapter establishing procedures for
the seizure and impoundment of motor vehicles used in connection with illegal
activities and establishing administrative penalties for such violations. (Ord.
06-7-14, 7-18-2006)
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the office of the village clerk of the village
is open to the public for a minimum of five (5) hours.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
OWNER OF RECORD: The recorded titleholder(s) of the vehicle. (Ord. 06-7-14, 7-
18-2006)
6-6-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF NUISANCE VEHICLES; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
   A.   In any case in which violations of this code or the Illinois vehicle
code 1  authorize or require the police department to cause a motor vehicle in
the village to be towed, or in any other circumstances under which a motor
vehicle is towed pursuant to this code or police department field operations
procedures, the chief of police or the chief's designee is hereby authorized
and directed, to tow away or cause to be towed away, such motor vehicle for
impoundment in locations determined by the chief of police or the chief's
designee. The chief of police shall promulgate rules and regulations for the
implementation of this chapter. The police officer making the arrest or
requesting the tow shall orally notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle
at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of
the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request an administrative
hearing to be conducted under this chapter. Examples of violations for which
towing may be required shall include the arrest of any person for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Operating or being in physical control of a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, any other drug or any combination thereof under section
11-501(a) of the Illinois vehicle code;
      2.   Driving a motor vehicle with a driver's license that has been
revoked or suspended as a result of: a violation of section 11-501(a) of the
Illinois vehicle code; a statutory summary suspension under section 11-501.1 of
the Illinois vehicle code; a violation of paragraph (b) of section 11-401 of
the Illinois vehicle code relating to the offense of leaving the scene of a
motor vehicle accident involving personal injury or death; or a violation of
section 9-3 of the criminal code of 1961, as amended, relating to the offense
of reckless homicide;
      3.   Any other violations of the Illinois vehicle code 2  or this code
which require that the vehicle be towed; or
      4.   Any violations of law which make the vehicle subject to seizure
under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq.
Any motor vehicle which is towed whenever authorized pursuant to this chapter
is hereby defined as a "nuisance vehicle" for purposes of this chapter. It
shall be unlawful for any nuisance vehicle to be found on any public street,
public place or private property in the village, and the presence of a nuisance
vehicle is hereby found to be a public nuisance and is deemed harmful to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village. This section shall
not apply, however, if the nuisance vehicle was stolen at the time of the
relevant violation and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered or
reasonably should have been discovered.
   B.   No towed motor vehicle shall be released by or at the direction of the
police department to any person except to the vehicle's owner of record or to
any person duly authorized to accept possession by such owner. The owner of
record of said vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative
penalty as set forth from time to time in the fee schedule adopted pursuant to
section
1-11-5 of this code, plus any applicable towing and storage fees. The amount of
the administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a
debt due and owing to the village. (Ord. 06-7-14, 7-18-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
6-6-4: TOW NOTICE:
   A.   Within five (5) business days after a motor vehicle is seized and
impounded, the police department shall mail (by U.S. certified or registered
mail) or personally deliver a written notice (tow notice) to the owner of
record of the motor vehicle. If mailed, the notice shall be sent to the address
indicated on the vehicle's registration or certificate of title. The tow notice
shall include the following:
      1.   Description of the motor vehicle including year, make, model,
registration and vehicle identification number (VIN);
      2.   The present location of the motor vehicle;
      3.   The basis for the removal of the vehicle;
      4.   The right of the owner to a hearing conducted by a hearing officer
as set forth in section
6-6-7 of this chapter;
      5.   The duty of the owner to file a written request for a hearing with
the village clerk within ten (10) business days from the date of mailing of the
tow notice or the date such notice is personally delivered;
      6.   The consequences of the failure to request a hearing; and
      7.   The consequences of a failure to reclaim a motor vehicle.
   B.   For purposes of giving the tow notice required in this section, the
refusal by the owner of the vehicle to acknowledge receipt of certified or
registered mail or to accept notice given by personal delivery shall constitute
a waiver by such owner of the need for further notice. (Ord. 06-7-14, 7-18-
2006)
6-6-5: HEARING NOTICE; FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING:
   A.   The owner of a vehicle towed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be provided the opportunity for a posttow hearing to determine whether a
violation of this chapter occurred with regard to the unlawful presence of a
nuisance vehicle in the village. Within ten (10) business days after the date
the tow notice is deemed given under section
6-6-4 of this chapter, the owner seeking such hearing must file with the
village clerk a written request asking for a posttow hearing.
   B.   If an owner timely requests a posttow hearing, then a hearing shall be
held within ten (10) business days after the date on which the owner's written
request is filed with the village clerk, on a weekday (not a legal holiday)
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. at
the village hall, at a time designated by the hearing officer.
   C.   If an owner fails to timely request a posttow hearing, then the right
to such hearing shall be forfeited. If the owner of record requests a hearing
but fails to appear at the hearing, the owner of record shall be deemed to have
waived his or her right to a hearing and the hearing officer shall enter a
default order in favor of the village in the amount of the administrative
penalty. (Ord. 06-7-14, 7-18-2006)
6-6-6: RECLAIMING VEHICLE BY WAIVER OR BY POSTING BOND:
   A.   Without Posttow Hearing: If an owner desires to take possession and
reclaim the impounded nuisance vehicle without a posttow hearing, the owner may
take possession of the vehicle only after he or she shall have:
      1.   Furnished evidence of his or her identity and ownership of the
vehicle or his or her right to possession to the police department;
      2.   Paid all towing and storage costs for the vehicle and delivered a
signed receipt for the vehicle to the towing agent;
      3.   Signed and delivered a waiver of the right to the hearing and made
payment to the village clerk of the prescribed administrative penalty.
   B.   Before Posttow Hearing: If an owner desires to take possession and
reclaim the impounded nuisance vehicle prior to the holding of a posttow
hearing (without waiving the right to such hearing), the owner may take
possession of the vehicle only after he or she shall have:
      1.   Furnished evidence of his or her identity and ownership of the
vehicle or his or her right to possession to the police department;
      2.   Paid all towing and storage costs for the vehicle and delivered a
signed receipt for the vehicle to the towing agent;
      3.   Filed a notice in writing requesting the hearing with the village
clerk within the time period established under subsection
6-6-5A of this chapter; and
      4.   Posted a cash bond with the village clerk in the amount of the
prescribed administrative penalty to assure the payment thereof if the hearing
officer ultimately determines that there was a violation. (Ord. 06-7-14, 7-18-
2006)
6-6-7: CONDUCT OF HEARING; RECLAIMING VEHICLE AFTER HEARING:
   A.   A hearing officer shall be appointed to conduct a posttow hearing, if
such hearing is timely and properly requested by the owner of the impounded
vehicle. The posttow hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the village's system of administrative adjudication set
forth in title 1, chapter 14 of this code.
   B.   If the hearing officer issues an order finding that there was a
violation of this chapter, and if the owner has previously elected to deposit a
cash bond with the village as provided in subsection
6-6-6B of this chapter, such cash bond shall immediately be forfeited to the
village. If the owner elected not to post a cash bond in order to reclaim the
owner's motor vehicle before the hearing, then the owner may take possession of
the vehicle only after he or she shall have:
      1.   Furnished evidence of his identity and ownership of the vehicle or
his right to possession to the police department;
      2.   Paid all towing and storage costs for the vehicle and delivered a
signed receipt for the vehicle to the towing agent;
      3.   Made payment to the village clerk of the prescribed administrative
penalty.
   C.   If the hearing officer issues an order finding that there was no
violation of this chapter, and:
      1.   If the vehicle is impounded at the time of hearing, then the hearing
officer shall order the vehicle to be immediately released, but the owner of
the vehicle shall remain liable to the towing agent for applicable towing and
storage fees; or
      2.   If the vehicle has been released, then the hearing officer shall
order that a refund of the cash bond posted under subsection
6-6-6B of this chapter will be made within forty eight (48) hours, but the
owner of the vehicle shall remain liable to the towing agent for applicable
towing and storage fees. (Ord. 06-11-24, 11-21-2006)
6-6-8: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village's action under this chapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered in favor of the village, or the time a final
administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default, may be disposed of as an unclaimed or abandoned vehicle as provided by
law, provided, however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state
or federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject vehicle may not be disposed
of by the village except as consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 06-7-14,
7-18-2006)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CULVERTS, DITCHES AND SWALES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Permit Required; Application; Fee
7-1-2: Liability Insurance And Bonds Required
7-1-3: Request For Inspection And Bond Refund
7-1-4: Culvert Regulations
7-1-5: Ditch And Swale Regulations
7-1-6: Roads And Road Shoulders
7-1-7: Removal And Restoration Of Owner Improvements Located In Street
Easements And Rights Of Way
7-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   No person shall hereafter construct, build, establish or maintain any
driveway, culvert, ditch or swale over, across or upon any portion of any
parkway, ditch or shoulder of a road, whether public or private, nor over any
portion of right of way of a public road or private road or drainage easement
without first having obtained a work permit to do so from the village.
   B.   Application for work permits shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the village. Said application shall contain the name and address
of the person making the application, the name and address of the contractor or
person who is to construct said driveway, culvert, ditch or swale, and
accompanying the application there shall be a site development plan or
construction plan drawn by a registered professional engineer, architect or
land surveyor licensed by the state of Illinois, showing:
      1.   Location of all existing and proposed buildings or structures on the
property.
      2.   Location of all existing and proposed streets, roadways, driveways,
easements and rights of way.
      3.   Location of all existing and proposed utilities such as sanitary
sewers, water mains and gas, telephone and electric lines.
      4.   Location of all existing and proposed drainage to, from and across
the site, location of intermittent and permanent springs, if any, and culverts
and other drainage structures.
      5.   Enough information on those areas abutting or adjacent to the site
to show existing drainage patterns and the drainage course that may affect or
be affected by the proposed development.
      6.   Name and address of the party preparing the plan along with
certification and seal attesting to its accuracy.
   C.   Before any work is started, the constructor or permittee shall be
required to pay to the village a permit and inspection fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Provided, however, no fee is required for replacing a
culvert under an existing driveway. (Ord. 81-12-13, 12-21-1981)
7-1-2: LIABILITY INSURANCE AND BONDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Before issuance of any such permit, the contractor or person proposing
to construct any such driveway, culvert, ditch or swale shall file with the
village clerk, on a form acceptable to the village, evidence that he carries
public liability and property damage insurance in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), naming the village of Riverwoods and holding
harmless its elective and appointive boards, commissions, officers, agents and
employees as additional insured to cover claims which may arise out of
performance of the work by the applicant. All such bonds shall be continuing
until terminated by notice in writing to the village, given thirty (30) days in
advance.
   B.   Before issuance of a permit, the applicant shall be required to post a
refundable cash bond or other security with the village in a form satisfactory
to the village, such security to be to the benefit of the village. Such
security shall be a minimum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per acre or any
part thereof for the first three (3) acres. When the site exceeds three (3)
acres, the fee shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) plus an amount set
by the village in cooperation with its consulting agents and officers and
determined to be sufficient to cover the cost of improvements. Such security
shall be conditioned upon the faithful observance of the conditions and
provisions of this chapter, and any plans accompanying the permit. (Ord. 81-12-
13, 12-21-1981)
7-1-3: REQUEST FOR INSPECTION AND BOND REFUND:
After all sections of this chapter have been fully complied with and
restoration completed, a request for inspection and refund of bond money shall
be made in writing on a form provided by the village, and inspections shall be
made by the village upon receipt of the written request. The village engineer
may be used for consultation on inspections made by the village.
A written inspection report shall be furnished the permittee approving the
installation or construction or an itemization of the details if any portion of
the construction is found to be improper or unsatisfactory.
If the building chairman or roads chairman approve the performance of the
construction, they shall forthwith submit in writing to the village clerk their
approval and direction to cause a refund of the cash bond.
Unsatisfactory installations shall be corrected within thirty (30) days of any
written notice from the village. If unsatisfactory installations have not been
corrected within thirty (30) days of date of written notice, the board of
trustees of the village may cause the replacement or completion of unfinished
or unsatisfactory work to be done and cause the repair of any damage done to
public property by the contractor in performance of the work for which the
permit was issued, and such cost shall be deducted from the cash bond on
deposit with the village, and the balance thereof shall be returned, upon
application of the depositor, and after inspection and approval of the work by
the village officers charged with such duty. (Ord. 81-12-13, 12-21-1981)
7-1-4: CULVERT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Duty To Install, Maintain And Replace: Culverts shall be installed in
the village for each driveway crossing an open existing or proposed ditch. It
shall be the duty of each owner to keep all driveway culverts on such owner's
property in good condition and repair and properly functioning. If any
construction or landscape activity damages corrugated metal pipe culverts, the
owner performing such work shall cause its contractor to repair, straighten or
trim the bent or damaged ends of such pipe culverts before the village shall
refund any bond or other escrow deposit posted in connection with such work. If
a culvert is undersized for the stormwater flows that it should be able to
accommodate or fails to accept such stormwater due to structural failure or
wear and tear, then the owner of the property, after obtaining a building
permit in accordance with this code, shall replace the culvert with a new and
properly sized culvert. If culvert replacement is required by the village, the
owner may appeal such determination to the village board, whose determination
shall be final. Culverts which are not kept and maintained in good condition
and repair and properly functioning are hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and may be abated by the village in accordance with this code.
   B.   Permitted Materials: Existing culverts of corrugated metal pipe
installed before December 19, 2006, shall be permitted to remain in place, but
whenever such culverts are substantially replaced whether voluntarily or when
required by the provisions of this section, or whenever new culverts are
installed in the village, the culvert pipe material shall be reinforced
concrete pipe or ductile iron pipe.
   C.   Construction Requirements: New culvert pipe shall be laid with the
invert elevation thereof at the normal or proposed flow line of the ditch.
Culvert size shall be of the diameter specified by the village, but shall not
be less than twelve inches (12") internal diameter. The culvert shall extend a
minimum of four feet (4') for each foot of depth on each side of the completed
driveway, and there shall be adequate side slope between the edge of the
driveway and the end of the culvert pipe to prevent the entrance or obstruction
of dirt or fill material. This requirement may be waived in instances where a
concrete, stone or wood retaining wall is approved by the village. Culvert
pipes shall be bedded in gravel. Where the invert depth of the culvert pipe is
three feet (3') or more, the side slope protection shall be of hot mix asphalt
or concrete.
   D.   Standards For Determining Replacement; Notice From Village: A culvert
shall be subject to inspection by the village to determine if it is deficient
and in need of replacement. If the village finds that one or more of the
following conditions applies to a culvert, the culvert shall be considered in
need of replacement:
      1.   Structural failure has occurred as evidenced by perforation or rust
through of more than twenty percent (20%) of the visible pipe wall;
      2.   The invert elevation is more than 0.25 feet above or 0.5 feet below
the normal flow line of the ditch;
      3.   Crimping of the inlet or outlet has occurred that reduces the flow
area by twenty five percent (25%) or more; or
      4.   The culvert is demonstrably deficient to carry normal flows as
evidenced by overtopping of driveway or roadway pavement or flooding outside of
the right of way following a rain event of 5-year or lesser intensity according
to the Illinois state water survey, bulletin 70, or any comparable replacement
publication approved by the village board.
If the village determines that a given driveway culvert is in need of
maintenance, repair or replacement according to the foregoing standards, it
shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner of property served by the
deficient culvert, a written notice requiring such owner to comply with the
provisions of this section and indicating the reason for the deficiency. Notice
shall be served personally or sent by U.S. certified mail, return receipt
requested, at the premises or at the last known address of the owner or, if
neither of these is effective to actually notify the owner, by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling located on the
property. Within ninety (90) days after the date of the village's notice, the
owner shall be obligated to submit a plan for maintenance, repair or
replacement of the culvert and, at such owner's sole cost, to carry out such
corrective work. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the deficient
driveway culvert is located on a county highway maintained by Lake County, the
owner shall satisfy its obligation under this section by filing a report with
the Lake County division of transportation (which shall include the village's
notice) and requesting Lake County to respond to the deficiencies noted in the
village's notice. If Lake County accepts the village's report and, as a county
project, corrects the deficiencies noted therein, the owner in such case shall
be deemed to have complied with this section. If Lake County accepts the
village's report but requires the owner to obtain a county permit and correct
the deficiencies, the owner shall obtain such county permit and perform the
required maintenance and repairs as authorized by such permit. If Lake County
specifies or performs different maintenance or repairs than those indicated in
the village's notice, Lake County's requirements or performance shall control,
and the owner in such case shall not be in violation of this section provided
the owner makes all permit applications and complies with the conditions
imposed by Lake County to the extent the corrective maintenance or repairs
falls on the owner. If the owner replaces a culvert in response to the
village's notice, the village shall not require another culvert replacement on
such property pursuant to this section for a period of twenty (20) years after
the date of the first replacement unless the village agrees to pay for the cost
thereof. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall bar the village from requiring
the owner who has installed a new culvert to correct any deficiency of
installation noted in the village's inspection report following installation.
   E.   Remedies: If within one hundred eighty (180) days after service of such
notice from the village, the owner fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of this section and the notice demanding such compliance by the
village, and if the culvert is located in the right of way of a public street,
the village, or its duly authorized representative, shall have the right (but
is not obligated) to correct any deficient installation or remove and replace
the defective culvert (and replacing any portion of driveway crossing the
culvert in accordance with the requirements of section
7-1-7 of this chapter) and assess the cost thereof against the owner of such
lot or parcel of land with an invoice describing the charges, and the amount of
such invoice shall be paid by such owner to the village within thirty (30) days
after the date of such invoice. If the invoice is not paid within the time
provided, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent
and thereafter such delinquency shall constitute a lien upon the real estate of
the owner, provided that either the village clerk or the village attorney first
notifies the owner in writing of the delinquency and grants the owner an
additional fifteen (15) days from date of the written notification to pay the
delinquent charges in full. If the delinquent invoice is not paid within the
time provided in such written notification, then either the village clerk or
village attorney of the village is hereby authorized and directed to file a
notice of such lien in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County,
Illinois, which notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement executed by
the village president setting out the name(s) of the owner(s) of the real
estate, a description of the owner's real estate, the amounts of monies due,
and the date or dates when such amount or amounts became delinquent. When a
notice of lien has been so recorded, the filing of such notice in the aforesaid
office shall be deemed notice for the payment of all charges related to the
compliance actions paid for by the village, the cost of recording the notice
and such legal enforcement fees of the village, as are set forth from time to
time in the fee schedule, which shall be charged to the owner and constitute a
lien upon the real estate of the owner in addition to the amount of the
delinquent invoice charge. The failure of the village clerk or the village
attorney to record such notice of any such lien shall not affect the right of
the village to foreclose the lien for the delinquent invoice or the right to
pursue any other legal remedy.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day's continued violation shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 10-6-15, 6-15-2010)
7-1-5: DITCH AND SWALE REGULATIONS:
Installation of ditches and swales shall be in conformance with the site
development drawing. Bottoms and side slopes shall be graded, seeded, sodded or
any other approved means of erosion protection as approved by the village.
When, in the opinion and sole discretion of the village, it appears desirable
that any rear, side or cross yard drainage ditches or swales should be located
within a public legal easement for said purpose, then such easement shall be
furnished by the owner in a forward manner approved by the village attorney.
All ditches and swales, whether located in private or public property, shall be
graded with due regard to the existing surrounding terrain so as to follow its
grade to permit the normal flow of water and to assure best possible drainage.
It shall be the obligation of the owner of the property to remove all
obstructions and debris from any ditch located on his property and to keep the
same at all times clean and free flowing. (Ord. 81-12-13, 12-21-1981)
7-1-6: ROADS AND ROAD SHOULDERS:
Upon completion of construction, road shoulders shall be graded in conformance
with the established grade and be finished by seeding, sodding or graveling as
existing circumstances indicate according to the direction and approval of the
village.
During construction, it shall be the duty of the contractor to clean the roads
of dirt, mud and debris occasioned by said construction.
Upon completion of construction, any visible damage to the road in front of or
leading to each lot shall be properly repaired or replaced in accordance with
the direction, and subject to the approval of the village. (Ord. 81-12-13, 12-
21-1981)
7-1-7: REMOVAL AND RESTORATION OF OWNER IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED IN STREET
EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS OF WAY:
The village reserves the right to relocate or remove any improvements placed by
an owner within the street easements and rights of way along the frontage of
such owner's lot, including a private road easement area in which one or more
utility easements have been granted to the village, when deemed necessary or
desirable by the village to perform utility or street operations (including all
snowplowing, repairs, maintenance, directional underground drilling, trenching,
repaving or replacements, whether performed by the village or its agents or
contractors). In the exercise of the foregoing powers, the village shall have
the right to relocate or remove improvements such as custom mailboxes, fences,
driveway entrance and lighting features, sprinkler or irrigation systems or
driveway materials of whatever kind or nature, including, but not by
limitation, asphalt, gravel, colored stone, stamped or colored concrete or
asphalt or specialty material pavers. Before proceeding with the removal or
relocation of improvements impeding its operations, the village shall notify
and give the owner a reasonable opportunity, except in cases of emergency when
any delay will exacerbate the situation giving rise to the need to remove or
relocate the improvements, or when the health or safety of the village
residents is in issue, to protect such of its improvements as may safely be
removed or relocated. If any damage to the owner's driveway improvements shall
occur as a result of the village's operations, the village: a) shall repair and
restore the owner's driveway using standard asphalt materials or b) if the
owner makes a written request prior to commencement of the restoration project
releasing the village from the obligation to complete restoration, the village
shall reimburse the owner for an amount equal to the cost savings realized by
the village in not restoring the driveway with asphalt materials, and the
owner, after obtaining all required permits, shall proceed with the driveway
restoration under its own direction and at its own cost, using materials of its
choosing. All costs incurred by any owner in restoring or replacing any other
improvements removed by the village pursuant to this section shall be borne
solely by such owner; provided, however, that the village reserves the right to
reimburse an owner for the replacement cost of any removed improvement,
including, but not by limitation, a standard mailbox as determined by the
village if an owner's mailbox is damaged by the village during snowplowing
operations. This section shall not excuse the village from performing seeding,
sodding, and restoration of grass turf or natural areas as normally undertaken
by the village or when required under any easement agreement. (Ord. 08-11-12,
10-21-2008)
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title
7-2-2: Authority
7-2-3: Purpose
7-2-4: Jurisdiction
7-2-5: Definitions
7-2-6: Permit Required Before Making Connection
7-2-7: Interference With Sanitary Sewer Or Water System Prohibited; Unlawful
Connections
7-2-8: Certification Of Water Connections
7-2-9: Violations; Penalty
7-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the ORDINANCE
REGULATING THE SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS OF THE VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS.
(Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted under authority vested in the village under the
provisions of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
7-2-3: PURPOSE:
The regulations are established to:
   A.   Provide for the public health and safety of the village.
   B.   Provide reasonable safeguards and planning for the growth of the
community, giving consideration to the physical characteristics of the area and
federal, state, county and environmental regulations relating to sewer and
water matters. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-4: JURISDICTION:
In addition to statutory authority extended to the village by the Illinois
legislature, the jurisdiction of the village regarding sanitary sewer systems
serving the community and water regulations and facilities have been and may in
the future be directly extended, limited or affected by intergovernmental
agreements with the county of Lake and surrounding municipalities. (Ord. 02-2-
4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this chapter, except when the context
otherwise requires and except where another definition set forth in another
section of this chapter and applicable to that section or as designated part
thereof is applicable:
BUILDING DEPARTMENT: The building department of the village under the
supervision of the building official.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The trustee serving on the village board of trustees who is
the appointed building official of the village.
FEE SCHEDULE: The fee schedule that is authorized by section
1-11-5 of this code, in effect from time to time as approved by the village
board of trustees.
OWNER: The individual or individuals accountable for the cost and expenses
incidental to the construction and installation of the sanitary service and/or
water service.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR: The inspectors retained or employed by the village to
perform plumbing inspections for the village.
PUBLIC SEWER: Any sewer constructed or owned by the village for the purpose of
carrying waterborne wastes to a treatment facility under the control of the
village or other appropriate authority. It shall carry only sanitary wastes,
with storm, surface and ground water prohibited.
RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT HOME UNIT (REHU): A unit equal to two hundred fifty
(250) gallons per day of water or sanitary sewage flow.
SANITARY SERVICE: A pipeline extension from a building that drains to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The engineer or engineering firm employed or retained by the
village to serve as the village engineer.
WATER MAIN: A pipeline owned or constructed by the village, the purpose of
which is to carry potable water under pressure from a water source under the
control of the village or other appropriate authority.
WATER SERVICE: The pipeline designated to carry potable water from the water
main to the building. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-6: PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE MAKING CONNECTION:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections or open
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or water main or appurtenances
thereof without first obtaining a building permit from the building official.
No water service or sanitary service shall be placed in operation unless
specifically authorized in each instance by a building permit issued by the
building official. Prior to undertaking any such work, the owner, or his
contractor or agent performing the work, shall make application on the building
permit form furnished by the building department. The building official may
require the permit application to be supplemented with detailed plans and
specifications. Any extension of a public sewer for a connection to any
building that is the equivalent of fifteen (15) or greater residential
equivalent home units shall require an Illinois environmental protection agency
permit. All residential or commercial sanitary and water connection charges,
any required inspection fees and any required bonds or certificates of
liability insurance shall be paid or deposited with the village clerk prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
   B.   The "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", adopted January 1, 1997, (or latest revision) by the Illinois
department of transportation, unless modified herein, shall be used as a basis
for approval or rejection of the owner's building permit application relating
to public sewers or water mains.
   C.   The building official and village engineer or their authorized
deputies, agents or representatives shall have the authority to inspect,
approve or reject the construction of water and/or sanitary services, and for
this purpose to periodically inspect each home in which water and/or sanitary
services are provided by the village for the purpose of determining if any
illegal connections have been made into the village's water and/or sanitary
sewer system and to further determine if the water meter seal has been broken
and the inside and outside meter readings coincide.
   D.   After a building permit is issued but prior to commencing any
construction, the owner or any contractor or agent of the owner installing the
water and/or sanitary service shall notify the building department a minimum of
two (2) working days in advance so that the building department can review any
necessary safety measures that should be implemented.
   E.   After all final connections are made but prior to any backfilling or
covering up of any excavation, the owner or any contractor or agent of the
owner installing the water and/or sanitary service shall request an inspection
from the building department a minimum of one working day in advance. Service
connections to any public sewer or water main shall be left uncovered until an
inspection has been made by the village. If the inspection for water and/or
sanitary services is not approved at the time and date of the village's initial
inspection, then each request for follow up inspection shall be made a minimum
of one working day in advance. After written approval of the connection, the
trench shall be backfilled as specified in accordance with the applicable
bedding and trench protection provisions of this chapter.
   F.   The owner or any contractor or agent of the owner installing the water
and/or sanitary service shall, as a precondition to the issuance of any permit,
indemnify the village and its employees and agents from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be caused by the installation of the service.
   G.   Before a permit will be issued for excavating in any public or private
street or right of way, the person applying for such permit shall have executed
unto the village and deposited with the village clerk a certificate of
liability insurance naming the village as an insured with coverage in the
amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and a letter of credit as
required by section
5-1A-14 of this code to ensure that the work will be performed faithfully with
due care and skill in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the village pertaining to
sanitary and water services and all roadways and disturbed areas will be
restored to their original condition.
   H.   As a condition precedent to permitting the connection of any lot or
parcel of land to the village sanitary sewer system or the village water
supply, the village shall have the right to require the owner of said lot or
parcel to grant a utility easement to the village, in form and substance
satisfactory to the village engineer, across such portions of the owner's
property as the village engineer shall determine to be necessary or useful to
lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain all conduits, wires, sewers, pipes
and water mains with all necessary manholes, water valves and other equipment
for the purpose of serving such property or adjacent properties with sewer,
water and/or other municipal services.
   I.   The village will own, install and maintain all water meters one and
one-half inches (1.5") and smaller; larger meters for nonresidential users
shall be purchased by the owner from the village and be thereafter maintained
by the property owner. The property owner owns and is responsible for the water
service from the service box (also sewers from the property or easement line)
into the house. When a building is ready for occupancy, the plumbing contractor
shall provide and install all connections to the meter. Any building that does
not have the proper connection will not have the meter installed and thus
cannot be occupied. Any questions concerning these connections should be
referred to the building official.
   J.   The village will repair all faulty residential meters. If a property
owner believes the owner's meter is not reading correctly, the owner may ask
the village to test the meter. The village will repair and replace any faulty
meters and any water meter seal that is found, upon inspection, to be broken.
The charges for replacement of the meter or water meter seal shall be set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule. If the meter is found to read correctly,
then the village shall add a meter "testing" charge to the owner's next water
bill, the amount of such charge to be set forth from time to time in the fee
schedule.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to draw water from any
unmetered connection to the village water supply system, including fire
hydrants, without a special permit to be issued by the village building
official. The owner, lessee or occupant in control of any premises or property
served by the village's water system shall not suffer or permit any contractor
or agent working on behalf of such owner, lessee or occupant to violate the
provisions of this section.
   L.   1. The building official, plumbing inspector or their authorized
representatives shall be allowed access during all reasonable hours to all
water meters and protection devices for the purpose of testing meters for
accuracy and testing other devices for satisfactory operation. Tests shall be
conducted biannually on all compound water meters, fire service meters and
protection devices. All other water meters shall be tested biannually at the
discretion of the village. Additional testing may be required whenever
erroneous or erratic meter readings are registered or when mechanical defects
are observed.
      2.   All water meters, isolation valves and other appurtenant devices
required to properly meter and protect the public water supply shall be fully
accessible to the village. No enclosures, cabinets or recesses shall be
constructed or installed which will obstruct the village in maintaining,
removing or replacing a village owned water meter or protection device. All
owners, lessees or occupants in control of any premises or property
constructing such an enclosure, cabinet or recess shall remove or remodel such
enclosure, cabinet or recess to provide proper accessibility within ten (10)
days of receiving notice from the building official that service or repair to
the water meter or protection device has been scheduled. Failure to provide
reasonable accessibility for maintenance, removal or replacement of water
meters and protection devices within fifteen (15) days' written notice from the
village of its intention to cut off and discontinue service shall entitle the
village immediately to discontinue such service. In such event, water service
shall be renewed to such premises within twenty four (24) hours after: a) the
water meter and protection devices have been made accessible to the village, b)
the owner or occupant thereof shall have paid in full to the village the
delinquent balance of all water services furnished to said premises up to the
date of the renewed service, and c) the owner or occupant thereof shall have
paid to the village a service charge as set forth from time to time in the fee
schedule. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-7: INTERFERENCE WITH SANITARY SEWER OR WATER SYSTEM PROHIBITED; UNLAWFUL
CONNECTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit the interference
or obstruction of said systems, including, but not limited to, water meters,
lateral lines and pipes and main lines and pipes, or in any other manner to use
said systems in a manner contrary to the ordinances and regulations of the
village. The owner, lessee or occupant in control of premises served by the
village's water system or sanitary sewer system shall not suffer or permit any
contractor or agent working on behalf of such owner, lessee or occupant to
violate the provisions of this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any roof drains,
downspouts, foundation drains, swimming pool drains, sump pumps or other
sources of storm water runoff to any sanitary service or public sewer. The
owner, lessee or occupant in control of premises served by the village's
sanitary sewer system shall not suffer or permit any contractor or agent
working on behalf of such owner, lessee or occupant to violate the provisions
of this section.
   C.   The owner, lessee or occupant in control of any premises in the village
served by the village's sanitary sewer system shall cause all domestic wastes,
including wash water, rinse water, drain lines from water softeners and other
types of water treatment filters, backwash water and effluents, and any toilet,
sink, septic tank or any other fixture or device discharging domestic wastes,
to be discharged to the village's sanitary sewer system and shall not allow
such domestic wastes to be connected directly or be allowed to flow to any
storm water drainage system. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-8: CERTIFICATION OF WATER CONNECTIONS:
Prior to occupancy of any structure connected to the village water supply, the
owner or occupant must furnish to the village certification by a licensed
plumber that the plumbing installed within the structure has been installed in
accordance with good plumbing practice and in accord with all applicable
statutes, ordinances and administrative regulations. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with or who refuses the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues. Any owner, lessee or occupant in control of any premises in the
village who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense; and, any contractor or agent who, on behalf of such owner, lessee or
occupant, makes an unauthorized connection to the village's water supply system
or otherwise disobeys any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a separate offense.
   B.   The owner, lessee or occupant in control of any premises in the village
who violates the provisions of this chapter by making an illegal connection to
the village's water supply system or by drawing water illegally through an
unmetered connection to the village water supply system shall be liable to the
village to pay for the village's water drawn through the unauthorized
connection in an amount representing the unpaid water charges that would have
been paid had the water usage been properly metered and user charges paid at
the then prevailing rates in the village. In such case, the daily water usage
for each day of illegal connection shall be deemed equal to one residential
equivalent home unit; however, if an underground irrigation system has been
installed on the property, then the daily water usage for each day of illegal
connection shall be deemed equal to three (3) residential equivalent home
units. If in the absence of reasonable proof as to the date that the illegal
connection or drawing of unmetered water began, the building official shall
calculate the user charge for the period commencing one year prior to the date
of discovery of the illegal connection and ending on the date that the
connection is properly metered. Failure to pay the user charges within thirty
(30) days after written notification from the building official shall
constitute a separate offense from the original offense first committed by
making the illegal connection or drawing unmetered water, and, in such event,
the provisions of sections
7-2B-4 through
7-2B-7 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
7-2A-1: When Connection Is Required To Sanitary Sewer System
7-2A-2: Sanitary Service Materials Including Cleanouts
7-2A-3: Water Service Materials
7-2A-4: Installation Requirements
7-2A-5: Bedding And Trench Protection
7-2A-6: Backfill
7-2A-7: Restoration
7-2A-8: Pipe Laying
7-2A-9: Road Replacement
7-2A-10: Separation Of Sanitary And Water Services
7-2A-11: Connection To Existing Water Mains
7-2A-12: Backflow Prevention Devices
7-2A-1: WHEN CONNECTION IS REQUIRED TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
Except as otherwise provided below, the owners of all subdivided lots and
parcels of land within the village improved with dwellings or buildings
intended for occupancy by persons are hereby required to connect to the
sanitary sewer system of the village, and at such time as the owner of any
unimproved lot or parcel of land shall apply for a building permit for any such
dwelling or building, such owner shall cause the subject parcel to be connected
to the sanitary sewer system of the village and shall pay the applicable
sanitary sewer system connection charges established from time to time by the
village.
For any subdivided lot or parcel of land existing before July 15, 2000, there
shall be no required connection to the sanitary sewer system of the village so
long as all devices and structures for treating sewage located on such lot or
parcel meet or exceed the minimum standards established by Lake County and
accepted by the village for the continued use and operation of such devices and
structures in the village. All owners of lots or parcels desiring exemption
from connection requirements shall, at their expense, furnish the village clerk
with a copy of the results of inspections conducted in April, May or June of
each year prior to July 15 of each year, commencing July 15, 2000. Owners of
lots or parcels requesting and qualifying for exemption who subsequently elect
to make connection shall be liable for all associated expenses at the time of
connection, including the costs of private service line extensions, a grinder
pump if required, and the decommissioning of the on site individual system. The
prior inclusion of such owner's lot or parcel in any special service area
installing sanitary sewer shall only be deemed payment of the standard
connection charge itself and not count toward payment of such associated
expenses.
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day's
continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any fine
permitted or required to be imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive
relief to prevent an actual or threatened violation of this section, and may
also seek mandatory injunctive relief to require that connection be made to the
village's sanitary sewer system when such connection is not made in violation
of this section, the corporate authorities finding that the village and the
health, safety and welfare of its residents will be irreparably harmed by the
failure to connect to the village's sanitary sewer system, and that the
imposition of a fine alone is an inadequate remedy for such violations. (Ord.
14-03-06, 3-4-2014)
7-2A-2: SANITARY SERVICE MATERIALS INCLUDING CLEANOUTS:
The following types of materials are the only approved materials for sanitary
service materials in the village:
   A.   Ductile iron pipe with cement mortar lining ASA 21.51, class 52
(minimum tensile strength: 60,000 psi; minimum yield strength: 42,000 psi;
minimum elongation: 10 percent having any approved cast iron pipe jointing
systems) (4 inch and larger).
   B.   PVC pipe with SDR of twenty six (26) or less ASTM D3034 or schedule 40
pipe ASTM 2665, with solvent welded joints per ASTM 2855 or flexible gasketed
seals per ASTM D3212. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-3: WATER SERVICE MATERIALS:
The following types of materials are the only approved materials for water
service materials in the village: (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
   A.   Type K - tempered copper pipe, ASTM B-88-62 and B-251 or polyethylene
(PE) tubing, ASTM D 2737 (3/4 inch and larger). PE tubing shall have a minimum
working pressure of two hundred (200) psi. PE tubing shall be copper tube size
SDR 9 and shall be colored blue. Inserts for PE tubing may be utilized, and, if
used, shall be 316 stainless steel. Tubing shall be approved for use with
potable water by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF-14) and shall be
continuously marked at intervals of not more than four feet (4') with the
following:
      1.   Nominal size.
      2.   Pressure rating.
      3.   NSF seal.
      4.   Manufacturer's name.
      5.   Standard dimension ratio.
      6.   ASTM specification.
No joints shall be allowed in PE tubing. No plastic water lines of any type
shall be allowed in structures. (Ord. 04-10-14, 10-19-2004)
   B.   Service boxes shall be cast iron with plug type lid, with interior slip
box.
   C.   Foot pieces shall be utilized (Mueller H 10391 or equal).
   D.   Corporation stops and curb stops shall be brass (150 psi test pressure)
with suitable outlets for copper connections. Curb stops shall be of the
"Minneapolis" type, with curb stop threaded into service box.
   E.   Water services four inches (4") and larger may be of ductile iron pipe
listed previously under section
7-2A-2 of this article.
   F.   All fittings shall be high quality waterworks brass with AWWA standard
threads. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-4: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   For dissimilar pipes where suitable adaptor couplings are not
available, the jointing shall be accomplished with a special fabricated
coupling or other connection as approved by the building official.
   B.   In areas where a public sewer is available, the sanitary service shall
not be connected to any septic tank, seepage pit or other private disposal
system. The sanitary service shall extend from the public sewer to the building
being served.
   C.   Only overhead sewers will be permitted in the village regardless of the
sewer depth (i.e., all basement sewage must be pumped).
   D.   Water services shall have a minimum cover of five and five- tenths feet
(5.5') and all house water service lines shall be a minimum of one inch (1")
diameter having a service box located within one foot (1') of the property or
road easement line, or as approved by the building official.
   E.   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-5: BEDDING AND TRENCH PROTECTION:
   A.   The pipe bedding shall be placed so that the entire length of the pipe
will have full bearing. No blocking of any kind shall be used.
   B.   All pipes will be bedded using four inches (4") of granular material
below the pipe. Then additional granular material or crushed stone shall be
placed to six inches (6") above the pipe to protect it during backfilling. A
clay barrier ten feet (10') long (no bedding material shall be used in this
section) and having a height equal to the trench must be located just inside
the property line to retard drainage along the service trench. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-
19-2002)
7-2A-6: BACKFILL:
   A.   Street, Sidewalk Or Driveway Excavation: Any excavation located in the
area of an existing street, sidewalk or driveway shall be backfilled above the
top of the granular cradle to the level of the bottom of the permanent surface
with granular backfill extending twenty four inches (24") each side of the
street, sidewalk or driveway.
   B.   Other Areas Of Excavation: Backfill in areas other than streets,
sidewalks or driveways shall be accomplished by any acceptable method, which
will not dislodge or damage the pipe or cause bridging action in the trench.
   C.   Material To Be Used: Only selected excavation material, free from clods
or stones, shall be used in backfilling above the required six inch (6")
granular cradle.
   D.   Structure Protection: Temporary supports, adequate protection and
maintenance of all underground and surface structures, drains, sewers and other
obstructions encountered in the progress of the work shall be furnished by the
contractor at his expense. Any structure that may have been disturbed shall in
all cases be restored upon completion of the work. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-7: RESTORATION:
The contractor shall be responsible for the restoration of all areas disturbed
by his construction to equal or better condition than existed before
construction. Restoration shall include the removal of all surplus material.
Completion of restoration shall be a condition of the release of all bonds.
(Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-8: PIPE LAYING:
   A.   Connection permits will only be issued with the understanding that the
applicant agrees to assume all responsibility and liability for all damages to
persons and property resulting from his or their negligence in properly
safeguarding and protecting such openings, excavations or work in any public
street or right of way.
   B.   All openings made in public streets or rights of way shall be protected
with sufficient barriers and warning signals and a sufficient number of warning
lights shall be maintained around the excavation at night. All other
precautions shall be taken to guard the public against accident.
   C.   All excavations within the public right of way shall be under expressed
permission obtained from the appropriate highway officials where applicable.
   D.   Trench width at the top of the sewer pipe shall not exceed twenty four
inches (24"). Trench sheetings and bracing or a trench shield shall be used as
required by the rules and regulations of OSHA.
   E.   The sanitary services pipe, unless otherwise approved by the building
official, shall be laid upgrade from point of connection on the existing public
sewer. The sanitary service pipe shall be installed with the bell upstream,
unless otherwise approved. When pipe laying is not in progress, the upstream
end of the service pipe shall be kept tightly closed with an approved temporary
plug.
   F.   During the pipe laying and jointing, the sanitary service shall be kept
free of any water, dirt or objectionable matter.
   G.   Sanitary service pipes shall be laid with a minimum grade of one-eighth
inch (1/8") per linear foot unless otherwise directed. The contractor shall
establish such alignment and grade control as is necessary to properly install
the service.
   H.   The maximum deflection permissible at any one fitting shall not exceed
forty five degrees (45°) (1/8 bend). The maximum deflection of any combination
of two (2) adjacent fittings shall not exceed forty five degrees (45°) (1/
8 bend) unless a straight pipe of not less than two and one-half feet (21/2')
in length be installed between such adjacent fittings, or unless one of such
fittings be a wye branch within a cleanout provided on the straight leg.
   I.   All fittings shall be factory produced and shall be designed for
installation to the public sewer connection. Fittings shall be of the same
quality and material as the pipe used for the service.
   J.   Cleanouts shall be installed at one hundred fifty foot (150')
intervals. There shall be at least one cleanout on each sanitary service line.
If there is not a cleanout inside the foundation, one must be provided on the
sanitary service line. Cleanouts are also required if more than one 45-degree
bend is used on the sanitary service line. All cleanouts shall be marked and
the measurements for their location shown on the building site plan and given
to the owner and the village. Cap of cleanout shall be a brass plug with cast
iron ferrule leaded into cast iron bell.
   K.   The completed sanitary sewer service shall be watertight.
   L.   Water services shall be constructed in a similar manner as the sanitary
service using appropriate sections only. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-9: ROAD REPLACEMENT:
   A.   As required by section
5-1A-14 of this code, the contractor shall restore (unless otherwise directed
by the building official or other appropriate highway official) all permanent
type pavements, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, shrubbery, fences, poles and other
property and surface structures removed or disturbed during or as a result of
construction operations to a condition which is equal in appearance and quality
to the condition that existed before the work began. The surface of all
improvements shall be constructed of the same material and match in appearance
the surface of the improvement, which was removed. Where selected granular
backfill is used, the restoration shall be made as soon as possible after
jetting of backfill has been completed.
   B.   Where it is necessary during the course of construction to construct a
sewer or water service across a public or private street within the village,
the contractor or owner shall satisfy the requirements of section
5-1A-14 of this code.
   C.   The contractor shall carry on the work in a manner, which will cause a
minimum of interruption to traffic. Where traffic must cross open trenches, the
contractor shall provide suitable bridges at street intersections and
driveways. The contractor shall post, where directed by the building official,
suitable signs indicating that a street is closed and necessary detour signs
for the proper maintenance of traffic. Prior to closing of any street the
contractor shall first receive the authorization of the building official.
   D.   Prior to proceeding with trench excavation, the contractor shall
contact all utility companies in the area to aid in locating their underground
services and shall not begin work until all utilities have been located. The
contractor shall proceed with caution in the excavation and preparation of the
trench so that the exact location of underground structures may be determined.
(For utility locations call 800-892-0123.)
   E.   The contractor shall take all reasonable precautions against damage to
existing utilities. However, in the event of a break in an existing water main,
gas main, sewer or underground cable, he shall immediately notify the
responsible official of the organization operating the utility interrupted. The
contractor shall lend all possible assistance in restoring services and shall
assume all costs, charges or claims connected with the interruption and repair
of such services. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-10: SEPARATION OF SANITARY AND WATER SERVICES:
Sanitary services that are laid in the vicinity of pipelines designated to
carry potable water shall meet the following conditions:
   A.   Normal Conditions: Sanitary service lines shall be located at least ten
feet (10') horizontally from a water service line or water main whenever
possible; the distance shall be measured from edge to edge.
   B.   Unusual Conditions: When local conditions prevent a horizontal
separation of ten feet (10'), the sanitary service may be laid closer to the
water service line provided that:
      1.   The bottom of the water service line is at least eighteen inches
(18") above the top of the sewer and still maintains five and five-tenths feet
(5.5') of cover over the water service line. This water service line shall be
shelved on undisturbed soil.
      2.   Where this vertical separation cannot be obtained, the sanitary
service shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe.
   C.   Crossing Conditions: When a water service must cross a sanitary
service, it must either cross eighteen inches (18") above the sanitary service
or the sanitary service must be of water class material. The joints of the
sanitary service must be equidistant and at least ten feet (10') from the point
of crossing. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-11: CONNECTION TO EXISTING WATER MAINS:
   A.   All connections to existing mains already in service shall be made by
the contractor. To prevent interruptions in service only live pressure taps
will be allowed. All contractors must be state licensed plumbers.
   B.   Each water service pipe two inches (2") in diameter and smaller in size
shall be connected to the water main through a brass corporation stop. The main
shall be tapped at an angle of forty five degrees (45°) to the vertical, and
the stop must be turned so that the "T" handle will be on top.
   C.   Upon completion of the tap and after inspection and approval by the
building official, the contractor shall backfill around the main and
corporation stop with granular material to six inches (6") above the main.
   D.   The trench shall be cut in as straight a line as possible, deviating
only because of physical obstructions. The service pipe shall be laid in the
trench so that the pipe is at least one foot (1') longer than the trench.
   E.   A curb stop shall be furnished and installed for each service.
   F.   A cast iron service box shall be furnished and installed over the curb
stop and held in a vertical position until sufficient backfill has been placed
to ensure permanent alignment of the box. The top of the box shall be adjusted
and set flush with the established ground surface grade.
   G.   All services shall be of copper tubing using flared tube nuts. For
service runs of sixty feet (60') or less, only one continuous uncut length of
tubing will be allowed. For service runs of greater than sixty feet (60'),
three (3) piece flared tube nut couplings must be used. The coupling shall
never be located in roadway or under pavement or drive.
   H.   Service taps shall be made using the following procedure, but in no
case will taps be closer than eighteen inches (18") without prior approval from
the building official:
      1.   Ductile and cast iron mains six inches (6") diameter and larger can
be direct tapped for one inch (1") through two inch (2") services; however one
and one-half inch (11/2") and two inch (2") taps shall be done using a saddle.
For larger than two inch (2") services a pressure tapping valve and sleeve is
required.
      2.   Transite main six inches (6") in diameter shall be tapped using a
Ford meter box style 101N or approved equal with minimum band width of two
inches (2"). For larger than one inch (1") services, use a pressure tapping
valve and sleeve.
      3.   Transite main eight (8) through sixteen inches (16") shall be tapped
using a Ford meter box style 101N saddle with minimum band width of two inches
(2"). For larger than two inch (2") services, use a pressure tapping valve and
sleeve.
   I.   In any case, at the option of the installing contractor, taps of one
inch (1") through two inch (2") on any main six inches (6") or larger may be
made through a Rockwell style #238 full circle tapped repair sleeve or equal.
In any other case not mentioned above, the tapping procedure shall be approved
in writing by the plumbing inspector prior to the service inspection. (Ord. 02-
2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2A-12: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   If under the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the village
engineer, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the village engineer will give notice to the
water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code,
Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable local regulations,
and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon
installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois
environmental protection agency and local regulations.
   B.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system of the village, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the village engineer and the
Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the village engineer to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the village engineer shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years.
   D.   The village engineer, building official, plumbing inspector and their
authorized representatives shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purposes of verifying the presence or absence of
cross connections and verifying information submitted by the customer regarding
the required cross connection control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the village engineer
any information, which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the village engineer, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this section.
   E.   The building official is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this section
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this section, and until a reconnection fee is paid to the
village, in the amounts set forth from time to time in the fee schedule.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the village
engineer is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the village engineer or the Illinois environmental
protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the village, the
village engineer, or their respective agents or assigns shall be liable to any
customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this section, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
   F.   1. The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured
material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable
water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly
installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed,
shall bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
      2.   In the event the costs of cleaning up the potable water supply
system are not paid within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill for
such services, such costs shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be
delinquent and thereafter such delinquency shall constitute a lien upon the
real estate of the owner responsible for back siphoned or back pressured
material or contamination occurring through an illegal cross connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired cross connection device or a
device which has been bypassed, provided that either the village clerk or the
village attorney first notifies the owner in writing of the delinquency and
grants the owner an additional fifteen (15) days from date of the written
notification to pay the cleanup charges in full. If the delinquent bill is not
paid within the time provided in the written notice of the village clerk or
village attorney, then either the village clerk or village attorney of the
village is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien in the
office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County, Illinois, which said notice of
such lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out the name(s) of the
owner(s) of the real estate, a description of the owner's real estate, the
amounts of monies due, and the date or dates when such amount or amounts became
delinquent, and the filing of such statement in the aforesaid office shall be
deemed notice for the payment of such charges for such service. In all cases
where a lien has been recorded, recording charges and legal fees, as set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule, shall be charged in addition to the
delinquent cleanup charge. The failure of the village clerk or the village
attorney to record such notice of any such lien shall not affect the right of
the village to foreclose the lien for the delinquent bill or the right to
pursue any other legal remedy.
      3.   If the cleanup charges are not paid within one hundred eighty (180)
days after rendition of the bill, the lien herein provided for may be
foreclosed in the same manner as a mortgage foreclosure by appropriate legal
action in the circuit court of Lake County. The fees and costs incurred by the
village to prosecute such foreclosure action, including all attorney fees
(including the initial fee assessed in the fee schedule for preparation and
recording of the lien), fees for the village engineer and other opinion
witnesses, costs of depositions and court reporters and court filing fees,
shall constitute additional delinquent cleanup charges for which the village
shall be entitled to receive payment. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
ARTICLE B. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-2B-1: Sanitary Sewer Connection Charges
7-2B-2: Sanitary Sewer User Charges
7-2B-3: Water Supply System Connection Charges
7-2B-4: Water Supply System User Charges
7-2B-5: Lien Upon Real Estate
7-2B-6: Foreclosure Of Lien
7-2B-7: Disconnection Of Water Supply For Delinquent Payment Of Water Supply
User Charges
7-2B-8: Penalties
7-2B-1: SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
There are hereby established charges for connection made to the sanitary sewer
system of the village, varying by particular circumstances, as itemized below.
In each case, the charges are stated for each "residential equivalent home unit
(REHU)" (as defined in section
7-2-5 of this chapter). The "standard sewer connection charge" for a connection
made to a public sewer in the village shall be eighteen thousand four hundred
dollars ($18,400.00) per REHU (or as subsequently set forth from time to time
in the fee schedule). The determination of the public works department of Lake
County as to the number of REHUs generated by any development shall be
conclusive. The exceptions to the standard sewer connection charge are as
follows:
   A.   The connection charge shall be two thousand eight hundred fifty dollars
($2,850.00) per REHU (or as subsequently set forth from time to time in the fee
schedule) for a connection to a "public sewer" (as defined in section
7-2-5 of this chapter) that was installed on or before January 1, 1992, and
extends along the owner's frontage. If the public sewer abuts only a corner of
the owner's lot or is not extended across such owner's frontage to the next
adjoining parcel, then the village shall have the right to extend the public
sewer for the distance of such owner's frontage as a condition of permitting
the owner's connection, in which case the owner is not eligible for this
exception but shall pay the standard sewer connection charge.
   B.   The connection charge shall be two thousand eight hundred fifty dollars
($2,850.00) per REHU (or as subsequently set forth from time to time in the fee
schedule) for connections in a subdivision or nonresidential development made
directly to a public sewer that was installed at the expense of a developer for
the benefit of such subdivision or nonresidential development.
   C.   The connection charge for a connection made directly to a public sewer
main owned by Lake County (i.e., where there is no direct connection to the
sanitary sewer system of the village) shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00)
per REHU (or as subsequently set forth from time to time in the fee schedule)
in addition to the charge per REHU imposed by Lake County.
   D.   Any property owner whose lot is located within the boundaries of a
special service area established by the village for the purpose of extending
the sanitary sewer system of the village shall not be required to pay any
connection charge for making a single connection to a public sewer, such
connection charge being deemed paid by virtue of the owner's payment of special
service area taxes levied within the special service area; provided, that
notwithstanding the deemed payment of the connection charge, each owner shall
be required to obtain a permit authorizing such connection from the building
department prior to making any such connection, as required by section
7-2-6 of this chapter; and further provided, that additional connection charges
shall be payable as a precondition to obtaining building permits after
subdivision of such owner's property, as provided in subsection E of this
section.
   E.   The payment of a sanitary sewer connection charge shall not be required
as a precondition to the issuance of a building permit for a new dwelling unit
that is intended to replace an existing dwelling unit already connected to the
village's sanitary sewer system; however, upon any subdivision of a residential
parcel already connected to the village's sanitary sewer system, only the first
residential home equivalent unit generated by the development shall be deemed
paid for by the original connection charge and each additional REHU resulting
from the development shall require the payment of the applicable sanitary sewer
connection charge as a precondition to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord.
02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2B-2: SANITARY SEWER USER CHARGES:
   A.   The user charges per residential equivalent home unit (REHU) shall be
based on the rates set forth from time to time in the fee schedule.
   B.   Owners whose properties are served by a public sewer by means of a
village approved grinder pump and low pressure service line shall pay an annual
charge for the maintenance and repair of said grinder pumps and low pressure
service lines, in addition to the quarterly charge for service imposed by Lake
County. Such annual charge shall be set forth from time to time in the fee
schedule. Specifications for village approved grinder pumps shall be maintained
by the building department and provided upon request of any owner.
   C.   Billing for sewer service shall be done quarterly and shall be payable
by the owner or occupant of the property receiving the service not later than
the close of business on the thirtieth day following the billing date. If
payment of the full amount of the bill is not received by the village within
said period, there shall then be added to the bill and due to the village a
service charge in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the rendered bill.
(Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2B-3: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM CONNECTION CHARGES:
There are hereby established charges for connection to the water supply system
of the village, as itemized below (for all purposes of this section, a
connection to the water main of another unit of government, when authorized and
made pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement adopted by the village, is
considered a connection to the water supply system of the village). In each
case, the charges are stated for each "residential equivalent home unit (REHU)"
(defined in section
7-2-5 of this chapter). The "standard water connection charge" for a connection
of any single-family residence made to a "water main" (defined in section
7-2-5 of this chapter) shall be the dollar amount per REHU as set forth from
time to time in the fee schedule. The determination of the public works
department of Lake County as to the number of REHUs generated by any
development shall be conclusive. The exceptions to the standard water
connection charge are as follows: (Ord. 06-6-13, 6-20-2006; amd. Ord. 16-08-13,
8-2-2016)
   A.   The connection charge shall be the dollar amount per REHU as set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule for a connection of a single-family
residence to a water main that was installed on or before December 6, 1994, and
extends along the owner's frontage. If the water main abuts only a corner of
the owner's lot or is not extended across such owner's frontage to the next
adjoining parcel, then the village shall have the right to extend the water
main for the distance of such owner's frontage as a condition of permitting the
owner's connection, in which case the owner is not eligible for this exception
but shall pay the standard water connection charge.
   B.   The connection charge shall be the dollar amount per REHU as set forth
from time to time in the fee schedule for connection of a single-family
residence made directly to a water main that was installed at the expense of a
developer for the benefit of the single-family residential subdivision in which
the residence is located.
   C.   The connection charge for a connection of any building that is not a
single-family residence (whether retail, office, hotel, assisted living,
nursing home or any other use that is not a single-family residence) made to
the village's water supply system shall be the dollar amount per REHU as set
forth from time to time in the fee schedule.
   D.   Any property owner whose lot is located within the boundaries of a
special service area established by the village for the purpose of extending
the water supply system of the village shall not be required to pay any
connection charge for making a connection to a water main, such connection
charge being deemed paid by virtue of the owner's payment of special service
area taxes levied within the special service area; provided, that
notwithstanding the deemed payment of the connection charge, each owner shall
be required to obtain a permit authorizing such connection from the building
department prior to making any such connection, as required by section
7-2-6 of this chapter; and further provided, that additional connection charges
shall be payable as a precondition to obtaining building permits after
subdivision of such owner's property, as provided in subsection E of this
section.
   E.   The payment of a water supply connection charge shall not be required
as a precondition to the issuance of a building permit for a new dwelling unit
that is intended to replace an existing dwelling unit already connected to the
village's water supply system; however, upon any subdivision of a residential
parcel already connected to the village's water supply system, only the first
residential home equivalent unit generated by the development shall be deemed
paid for by the original connection charge and each additional REHU resulting
from the development shall require the payment of the applicable water supply
connection charge as a precondition to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord.
06-6-13, 6-20-2006)
7-2B-4: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM USER CHARGES:
For consumption of village supplied water, village residents shall pay user
charges at the rates set forth from time to time in the fee schedule.
   A.   All buildings to which municipal water is supplied shall be equipped
with the installation of a village supplied and owned water meter. Water shall
not be drawn nor an occupancy permit issued without the installation of a water
meter.
   B.   Billing for residential water service shall be done quarterly and shall
be payable by the owner or occupant of the property receiving the service not
later than the close of business on the thirtieth day following the billing
date. Billing for nonresidential water service shall be done monthly and shall
be payable by the owner or occupant of the property receiving the service not
later than the close of business of the twenty first day following the billing
date. If payment of the full amount of the bill is not received by the village
within said period, there shall then be added to the bill and due to the
village a service charge in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the
rendered bill. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2B-5: LIEN UPON REAL ESTATE:
In the event the charges for services are not paid within thirty (30) days
after rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and
are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate for which service is supplied provided
that either the village clerk or the village attorney first notifies the
property owner in writing of the delinquency and grants the property owner an
additional fifteen (15) days from date of the written notification to pay the
bill in full including the delinquent service charge. If the delinquent bill is
not paid within the time provided in the written notice of the village clerk or
village attorney, then either the village clerk or village attorney of the
village is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien in the
office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County, Illinois, which said notice of
such lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out the name(s) of the
owner(s) of the real estate, a description of the real estate upon or for which
service was supplied, the amounts of monies due, and the date or dates when
such amount or amounts became delinquent, and the filing of such statement in
the aforesaid office shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for
such service. In all cases where a lien has been recorded, recording and legal
fees as set forth in the fee schedule shall be charged in addition to the
delinquent water supply user charge. The failure of the village clerk or the
village attorney to record such notice of any such lien shall not affect the
right of the village to foreclose the lien for unpaid water supply service
charges or the right to pursue any other legal remedy. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2B-6: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
If the charges for service are not paid within one hundred eighty (180) days
after rendition of the bill, the lien hereinabove provided for may be
foreclosed in the same manner as a mortgage foreclosure by appropriate legal
action in the circuit court of Lake County. The fees and costs incurred by the
village to prosecute such foreclosure action, including all attorney fees
(including the initial fee assessed in the fee schedule for preparation and
recording of the lien), fees for the village engineer and other opinion
witnesses, costs of depositions and court reporters and court filing fees,
shall constitute additional delinquent water supply user charges for which the
village is entitled to receive payment. (Ord. 02-2-4, 2-19-2002)
7-2B-7: DISCONNECTION OF WATER SUPPLY FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT OF WATER SUPPLY
USER CHARGES:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, the
remedy by enforcement of the lien for unpaid water bills and charges shall not
be exclusive of any other legal remedy to collect the amount due and unpaid for
water consumed or furnished to the person liable therefor. The water supply of
the premises against which the water service charges remain unpaid may be cut
off by the village and such service discontinued conditioned on the following
terms and conditions:
   A.   The account or portion thereof remains unpaid for a period of four (4)
months after the billing date; provided, however, if the owner or occupant
liable for the account has voluntarily entered into an agreement with the
village acknowledging liability and agreeing to pay unpaid water bills pursuant
to a payment plan, then upon further default by such owner or occupant (whether
the default consists of late payment or underpayment of the agreed installments
in the payment plan or of the current water bill), the requirement that the
account or portion thereof remain unpaid for a period of four (4) months after
the billing date shall no longer apply as a condition to water cut-off, and the
village may proceed immediately with the fifteen (15) days' written notice
specified in subsection B below following such default.
   B.   The village gives to the owner or occupant of the premises at least
fifteen (15) days' written notice of its intention to cut off and discontinue
water service.
   C.   Before water service is renewed to the premises, the owner or occupant
thereof shall pay in full the delinquent balance of all water services
furnished to such premises up to the date of the renewed services, and in
addition to such payment, pay to the village a service charge for restoring
service as set forth from time to time in the fee schedule.
   D.   The water service shall be renewed to the said premises within twenty
four (24) hours after such payment has been made.
(Ord. 23-01-01, 1-10-2023)
7-2B-8: PENALTIES:
Any owner of any premises in the village who fails to pay water supply user
charges when due for more than thirty (30) days following the billing date
shall be guilty of an offense and subject to the penalty provisions of Section
7-2-9 of this chapter. The owner of such premises shall be liable
notwithstanding that a lessee or occupant was in control of the premises. The
foregoing penalties may be waived, reduced or deferred by the village pursuant
to a payment plan agreement but may be imposed upon any breach of the payment
plan agreement.
(Ord. 23-01-01, 1-10-2023)
ARTICLE C. WATER USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-2C-1: Hourly Periods For Outside Use Of Water
7-2C-2: Regulation Of Water Use During Emergencies
7-2C-3: Restricted Use Of Water Prohibited
7-2C-1: HOURLY PERIODS FOR OUTSIDE USE OF WATER:
   A.   Subject to subsection B of this section, between May 15 and September
15 of each year it shall be unlawful for any person to draw water, whether from
the village's water system or from shallow wells of five hundred feet (500') or
less, for filling swimming pools or for the sprinkling, watering or irrigation
of lawns, ground cover, or gardens, except in compliance with the following
restrictions:
      1.   Such water use shall not occur between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
      2.   Such water use shall not occur on consecutive days. Such water use
is permitted only on odd calendar days for those parcels of property with
street addresses ending with an odd number and only on even calendar days for
those parcels of property with street addresses ending with an even number. Any
parcel of property covering an area that includes multiple street addresses
shall utilize the street address on the village water bills for purposes of
determining the days on which such water use is permitted.
   B.   The prohibited water use, for purposes of subsection A of this section,
shall not include the following limited exceptions:
      1.   Handheld sprinkling devices such as garden hoses used to water
grass, flowers, vegetables or shrubbery shall be exempt from the provisions of
this section. The term "handheld sprinkling devices" shall exclude any
automatic irrigation system or any mechanical device designed for dispensing
water which is attached to a garden hose or water outlet and set to run
continuously or on a timed cycle.
      2.   Newly sodded or seeded areas of lawns may be watered at any time on
any day for the two (2) week period following the installation of such sod/
seed.
      3.   This section does not apply to water drawn from deep wells of more
than five hundred feet (500') or retention ponds located on nonresidential
property in the village.
      4.   This section does not apply to the continuous replenishment of water
in a swimming pool to maintain water levels after the pool is filled. (Ord. 15-
11-19, 11-17-2015)
   C.   Any person or property owner violating any provision hereof shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense occurring on
residential property and not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense occurring on nonresidential property. (Ord. 96-7-13, 7-16-1996; amd.
Ord. 15-11-19, 11-17-2015)
7-2C-2: REGULATION OF WATER USE DURING EMERGENCIES:
The village president, with the verbal consent of the chairman of the sewer and
water committee of the board of trustees, or if said chairman is not
immediately available for consultation, the village president, with the verbal
consent of three (3) members of the board of trustees, or if the village
president is for any reason unavailable to act, any trustee with the verbal
consent of two (2) other members of the board of trustees is authorized to
declare an emergency and to issue emergency water conservation regulations
under the following terms and conditions:
   A.   When said village officials deem that because of breakage of any main
trunk, branches, service pipes or any part or portion of said system, or
because of an inadequate water supply or inadequate facilities for distribution
of water, or when the overall demand upon the village water supply system is so
great as to endanger the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the village.
   B.   Under said circumstances said officials are authorized to declare an
emergency and to issue emergency water conservation regulations limiting and
prohibiting the use of water from the village water mains for use in air
conditioning, swimming pools and the sprinkling, watering or irrigation of
lawns, ground cover or gardens.
   C.   All emergency regulations issued by the president of the board of
trustees shall be in writing and shall be distributed to each residence
affected by the emergency regulation by placing a copy of the emergency
regulation in the mailbox of each residence. In the alternative, such emergency
regulations may be published once in a newspaper having general circulation in
the village. Said emergency regulations shall be effective upon delivery of the
notice to residents if such manner of notice is followed and shall be effective
otherwise upon publication. (Ord. 80-3-1, 3-17-1980)
   C-A.   Restrictions on the use of private wells not connected to the village
water system, including, but not limited to, a ban on all outside the home
water use, when the village president has determined that restrictions are
necessary because of drawing down of such wells or other conditions that
endanger the public health, safety and welfare of residents of the village.
(Ord. 88-6-11, 6-21-1988)
   D.   Said emergency regulations shall remain in effect until rescinded by
written proclamation of the village president or in his absence the chairman of
the water committee of the board of trustees. (Ord. 80-3-1, 3-17-1980; amd.
1982 Code)
7-2C-3: RESTRICTED USE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or occupant in control of any
premises or property to use or consume water, to cause water to be used or
consumed, or to permit the use or consumption of water in violation of the
restrictions in this article. (Ord. 80-3-1, 3-17-1980)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR RECONVEYANCE OR EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definition Of Surplus Real Estate
7-3-2: Method Of Disposition
7-3-1: DEFINITION OF SURPLUS REAL ESTATE:
Land which owners have conveyed by quitclaim deed to the village and easements
over private property which owners have granted to the village for various
public purposes such as installing sidewalks, paths, water mains and sewer
mains. (Ord. 06-5-9, 5-2-2006)
7-3-2: METHOD OF DISPOSITION:
The corporate authorities hereby determine that the method by which the surplus
real estate shall be reconveyed or exchanged with any owner of land in the
village shall be as follows:
   A.   The corporate authorities may negotiate, through the village president,
or his designated representative, for the reconveyance of land or relocation of
easements, in whole or in part, that formerly had been quitclaimed or granted
to the village for various public purposes, on such terms and conditions as the
corporate authorities determine to be in the best interest of the village.
   B.   The corporate authorities may select one or more methods of adjusting
the boundaries or area of any owner's lot that is to be used for public
purposes and may agree with such owner to effect such adjustment by reconveying
land to such owner, executing a plat of subdivision or resubdivision, agreeing
to the relocation of an easement area by written instrument or a new easement
plat or by exchanging land formerly quitclaimed to the village for some other
portion of such owner's land. The corporate authorities may authorize the
reconveyance of surplus real estate to an owner or the relocation of any
easement area for only nominal consideration or for such consideration as the
corporate authorities determine to be in the best interest of the village.
   C.   The corporate authorities shall authorize the disposition of surplus
real estate by ordinance passed by affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of
the corporate authorities. Provided the three-fourths (3/4) vote is obtained,
such ordinance may take the form of an ordinance that approves a final
subdivision plat, plat of resubdivision, easement instrument or easement plat,
quitclaim deed or a special use for the land in question. (Ord. 06-5-9, 5-2-
2006)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES ON RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Scope
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Annual Registration Required
7-4-4: Permit Required; Application Requirements And Fees
7-4-5: Village Review Of Permit Applications
7-4-6: Effect Of Permit
7-4-7: Insurance And Indemnification
7-4-8: Security
7-4-9: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-4-10: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-4-11: General Construction Standards
7-4-12: Location Of Facilities
7-4-13: Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction Methods
7-4-14: Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities
7-4-15: Materials
7-4-16: Operational Restrictions
7-4-17: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-4-18: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-4-19: Variances
7-4-20: Penalties; Enforcement
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places; and
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic; and
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property; and
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities; and
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces; and
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed; and
      7.   Preserve open space; and
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Provisions Of This Code: This chapter supersedes
all other provisions of this code, or parts thereof, adopted prior hereto that
are in conflict herewith, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
chapter. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. Any term
not defined in this chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92
Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise. In the event that a term is not defined by this chapter or
92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, said term shall have its common
and ordinary meaning.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Riverwoods.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY SERVICES OR DIRECTOR: The village director of community
services or his or her designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect(s) on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village or drainage culverts, ditches or swales, which
remain subject to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
director of community services to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video services from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal levels.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Riverwoods.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-
6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register no
later than January 1 of each year with the director, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of way and a
twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required herein, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord.
09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village right of way which: 1)
changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the
right of way, or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right of
way, without first filing an application with the director and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name, address, telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruption to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this chapter unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications depicting the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer (licensed in the state of Illinois)
that such drawings, plans, and specifications comply with applicable codes,
rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required by this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required by this
chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter; and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video services or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). No application
fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the
municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee law, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes
645/5-1. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-5: VILLAGE REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Review By Director: Completed permit applications, containing all
required documentation, shall be examined by the director of community services
within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to
the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the director shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. If the director is satisfied that the proposed work conforms
to the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, codes,
laws, rules, and regulations, the director shall issue a permit therefor as
soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the director, that the construction
proposed under the application is in full compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Provide Notice Of Plans: Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone
company act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer
shall notify the village that it intends to commence work governed by this
chapter for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. Such
notice shall consist of plans, specifications, and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not
less than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of work requiring
excavation. The director shall specify the portion of the right of way upon
which the facility shall be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   Exceptions: In the event that the director fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Submittal Of Application: Upon the provision of foregoing
specification by the village, where a permit is required for work pursuant to
this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit issued by the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually commenced
within said period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   E.   As Constructed Permit Drawings: The permittee shall submit an as
constructed set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The as constructed drawings or
plans shall specifically identify the locations of the actual facilities as
installed under the permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from
the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance
in accordance with this chapter. If the village denies the request for a
variance, then the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of
way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised
drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-
2009)
7-4-7: INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain
insurance policies which comply with the Riverwoods insurance and indemnity
ordinance.
   B.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this chapter shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   C.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this chapter
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
   D.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the right
of way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit and/or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd.
Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-8: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this chapter. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this chapter at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform and that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter and any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior written notice to
the village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the director, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the director may, in
the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount
of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under
the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be
equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions
of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice stating the reason for, and its intention to, exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount required
herein.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
herein.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-
2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-9: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to the permittee as set forth in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) business days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth herein.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the village or its designee may,
at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon not less
than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities
or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-
7-2009)
7-4-10: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-
6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-11: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the director shall determine, in the exercise of sound engineering
judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final. If
requested, the director shall state which standard or principle will apply to
the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
   C.   Traffic Control:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
      2.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
      3.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      4.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
      5.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14,
7-7-2009)
7-4-12: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
In addition to location requirements applicable to specific types of utility
facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of type, shall be subject to the
general location requirements of this subsection.
   A.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the director determines that the proposed location
will require the relocation or displacement of any of the village's utility
facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or maintenance of any
of the village's utility facilities.
   B.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause only
the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and shall
cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the rights
and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of way.
   C.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in any
location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
   D.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
   E.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   F.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways; Overhead Parallel
Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be located within the right of
way lines of a highway only if:
      1.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
      2.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
      3.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
      4.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
      5.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1') (0.3
m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way line.
   G.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways; Underground Parallel
Facilities: An underground parallel facility may be located within the right of
way lines of a highway only if:
      1.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as practicable
and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the right of way
line;
      2.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway
only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
      3.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   H.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
   I.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      1.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's rules
entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83 Ill. adm.
code 305);
      2.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
      3.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
   J.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      1.   The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance free service life; and
      2.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
   K.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)). Unless expressly authorized by the village, markers shall be set flush
with the adjacent ground surface.
   L.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   M.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   N.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   O.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   P.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 09-1-
1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-13: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
METHODS:
   A.   Boring Or Jacking:
      1.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be excavated no
more than twenty four (24) hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within twenty four (24) hours after boring or jacking operations are
completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by
barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
      2.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted
under the roadway.
      3.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
      4.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") (0.15 m) or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided
with auger, or auger and following pipe method.
      5.   Horizontal Directional Drilling: Where utility facilities are to be
installed within rights of way by horizontal directional drilling, sufficient
equipment shall be available and on site during the drilling operations to
contain, remove, and dispose of any drilling fluids, mud, slurry, or other
material created or displaced by the drilling operations.
      6.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of any
tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      7.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be conducted in accordance with all
applicable provisions of section 819 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of an open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: An open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      8.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the director.
      9.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A9 is
permitted, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with controlled low strength material meeting the
requirements of section 1019 of "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" or granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the director.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with hot mix asphalt shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      10.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      11.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
(Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-14: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR TYPES OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
      1.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities within
village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
      2.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
      3.   Underground Facilities:
         a.   Installation: Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing,
provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize
damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads.
         b.   Encasement: If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking,
encasement shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be
eliminated only if: 1) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip
augers", or other approved method which compresses the earth to make the
opening for cable installation or 2) the installation is by the open trench
method which is only permitted prior to roadway construction.
         c.   Cable Grounded: Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the
national electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted in writing by the village. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10)
business days after placement.
      4.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      5.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      6.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      7.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      8.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director. With the approval of the director,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of a vegetation
free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a
neutral color to blend with the surroundings. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord.
09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-15: MATERIALS:
   A.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities within
rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the appropriate
industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the Illinois commerce commission,
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
   B.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the director. When such
storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property.
   C.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the village
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-
2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-16: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hazards Created: Construction operations on rights of way may, at the
discretion of the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations
would create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right of way or other property.
   B.   Emergency Work: These restrictions may be waived by the director when
emergency work is required to restore utility services.
   C.   Hours Of Construction: Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the
hours of construction are those set forth in this code.
   D.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with underground facilities damage prevention act 1 .
   E.   Vegetation Control:
      1.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
      2.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that
is done by any entity other than an electric utility with facilities in the
right of way and that is not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and
regulations specifically governing same, shall not be considered a normal
maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the issuance
of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this chapter.
      3.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      4.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
      5.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
      6.   Chemical Use:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection E6b of this section, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
         b.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-4-17: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director determines
that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
   E.   Cleanup And Restoration: The utility shall remove all excess material
and restore all turf and terrain and other property within ten (10) days after
any portion of the rights of way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to
construction or maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the
village. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of
roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
director. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling,
regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right
of way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to
the commencement of the project. The time period provided in this chapter may
be extended by the director for good cause shown. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd.
Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-18: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing him or
her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling public and
what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature of the
emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-
14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-19: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director as a
part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The director shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director may require the utility requesting the
variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of the
same.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the director
under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the
village board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the village clerk
within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The village board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the board's next regularly scheduled meeting, but in no event earlier than
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The village board shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
7-4-20: PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in
accordance with village's annual fee ordinance. There may be times when the
village incurs delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility demonstrates that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs and/or damages and its costs of installing, maintaining,
modifying, relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the
permit. No other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a
permit related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon
a utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
   B.   Enforcement: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any
additional or further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord. 09-1-1, 1-6-2009; amd. Ord. 09-7-14, 7-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5
SERVICE AGREEMENTS IN ROAD SPECIAL SERVICE AREAS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Road Committees
7-5-3: Service Agreements Necessary For Road SSA
7-5-4: Mandatory Provisions Of Service Agreements
7-5-5: Provisions For Bond Ordinances
7-5-6: Special Taxes
7-5-7: Insurance
7-5-8: Fees For Road SSA
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: The Special Service Area Tax Law, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 200/27-
5 et seq.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Community Services, as defined in title 8, chapter 2
of this Code.
ESTABLISHING ORDINANCE: An ordinance adopted by the Village pursuant to
sections 27-40 and 27-90 of the Act that establishes a road SSA and authorizes
the provision of special services, as the same may be amended pursuant to the
Act.
INDEMNIFIED PARTY: Each of the Village and its elected and appointed officials
and officers, employees, agents, volunteers and representatives, including any
of the foregoing who shall resign, and its engineers, foresters, attorneys and
other consultants.
MAINTENANCE FUND: The account maintained by the Village for each road SSA to
receive Special Service Area Taxes when levied and extended within the road
SSA. The term "Maintenance Fund" shall not include any Debt Service Fund in
which such taxes are deposited to provide for the retirement of special service
area bonds over a period of time.
RIVERWOODS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY ORDINANCE: As defined in title 8, chapter 11
of this Code.
ROAD COMMITTEE: As defined in section
7-5-2 of this chapter.
ROAD CONTRACT: A contract between a Road Committee and a contractor under which
the contractor agrees to furnish one or more special services in the road SSA.
ROAD SSA: A special service area formed in the Village under the Act and this
chapter for purposes of providing special services.
SERVICE AGREEMENT: An agreement between a Road Committee and the Village
conforming to the provisions of this chapter by means of which the Road
Committee agrees to award and administer a road contract and comply with the
provisions of this chapter as a condition of the Village agreeing to levy and
extend Special Service Area Taxes in the road SSA for special services.
SPECIAL SERVICES: The special services authorized to be provided in a road SSA
according to the establishing ordinance for such road SSA. (Ord.
11-1-3, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
7-5-2: ROAD COMMITTEES:
To be eligible to enter into a service agreement, interested owners residing in
the road SSA shall incorporate an Illinois not for profit corporation herein
referred to as the "Road Committee". The Road Committee shall obtain the
written consent of the owners of fifty one percent (51%) or more in number of
the lots, tracts or parcels of real estate that are subject to the special
service area taxes levied in the road SSA. If a homeowners' association already
exists with the authority to administer and manage the private streets within a
road SSA, then such association shall serve as the road committee upon sharing
of appropriate legal documentation with the village concerning its organization
and due authority. Each road committee shall provide such copies of its
recorded covenants, association documents, bylaws, proxies and consents as the
village requires. The board of directors of a road committee may exercise their
authority to submit a request to the village for a tax levy within a road SSA
up to the maximum annual tax levy amount in the establishing ordinance. (Ord.
11-1-3, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
7-5-3: SERVICE AGREEMENTS NECESSARY FOR ROAD SSA:
The village may enter into a service agreement to regulate the terms and
conditions of payment for special services in a road SSA. The village shall not
apply tax revenues collected from the special service area taxes levied within
a road SSA to pay any contractor under a road contract unless the village and
road committee for such road SSA shall have entered into a service agreement.
Without formal authorization of the board, the village president is authorized
on behalf of the village to execute service agreements and confirm insurance
agreements as required by this chapter. (Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
7-5-4: MANDATORY PROVISIONS OF SERVICE AGREEMENTS:
Each service agreement shall contain substantially the provisions set forth in
this section or incorporate such provisions by reference: (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-
2011)
   A.   The road committee shall be solely responsible for selecting, engaging,
administering, supervising and terminating the contractor(s) under road
contracts from time to time providing special services in the road SSA,
provided that the foregoing shall not bar the village from enforcing all
applicable laws, ordinances, codes, rules or regulations. The members of the
road committee shall certify to the village a complete and true copy of a road
contract for which the road committee intends to have invoices paid under its
service agreement with the village. The receipt by the village of any road
contract shall not impose any liability upon the village for any ambiguity or
error in any contract term or provision, and the road committee, by signing any
road contract, acknowledges that it is satisfied with the terms and provisions
of such road contract and received the advice of counsel of its choosing and is
not relying on the village or village consultants in any manner before choosing
to enter into such road contract. (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 11-12-30,
12-6-2011)
   B.   No officer or member of the road committee shall have any direct or
indirect financial interest in the contractor engaged to provide special
services under the road contract. The director is authorized to request
financial certifications from the relevant parties as may be necessary to
verify compliance with the foregoing.
   C.   The road committee shall negotiate, specify and approve the provisions
in the road contract concerning the cost, scope and manner of performing the
special services, whether the contractor is paid in a lump sum or whether
payment is to be based on some other basis. The road committee shall administer
all day to day aspects of the performance by the contractor under the road
contract and shall have sole liability for ensuring adequate performance by the
contractor and for making full payment of all charges due under the road
contract (notwithstanding that certain amounts, as provided in this chapter,
may be paid by the village). The village shall not be a guarantor of payment by
the road committee under the road contract. (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-2011)
   D.   Although the road committee shall have sole liability for full payment
of all charges due under the road contract, the village shall apply tax
revenues collected from the annual maintenance taxes levied within the road
SSA, to the extent on deposit in the maintenance fund and lawfully available to
pay the cost of the special services, in the amounts invoiced by the contractor
to the road committee and certified by the road committee to the village to be
correctly due and owing. To effectuate payment, the road committee shall
furnish the contractor's invoices to the village, as and when services are
performed and payment becomes due, and shall include an affidavit from an
officer of the road committee stating that the amounts invoiced by the
contractor are for services performed under the road contract and are correctly
due and owing. The village shall be entitled to rely on such affidavit as
conclusive that the amounts stated therein are due and owing to the contractor
for services validly performed and the village shall have no liability to the
road committee or any owner residing in the road SSA on account of any payment
so made when the basis for such payment is subsequently found to be mistaken;
if the director has reason to question any invoice, the village may withhold
payment until the validity of the payment is established. If the village is
unable or unwilling to make full payment of any invoice presented, it shall
notify the representative of the road committee designated to receive notices
and specify the reason why it is withholding payment. Any question over such
validity, if not earlier resolved, shall be determined by the village board.
Except in the case where payment is questioned, the village shall make direct
payment to the contractor within thirty (30) days after presentation of each
invoice and affidavit, subject, however, to the availability of tax revenues
collected from the annual maintenance taxes levied within the road SSA and
remaining on deposit in the maintenance fund established for this purpose.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the road committee
shall have the right to submit an invoice for snowplowing and removal services
in advance of the services being provided, if an agreed upon price has been
proposed. (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 11- 12-30, 12-6-2011)
   E.   To ensure that annual maintenance taxes levied within the road SSA are
sufficient for the scope and extent of special services desired by the road
committee, a road committee may submit a request to the village for one or more
special services and shall recommend the rate or amount of special service area
taxes to be levied in the road SSA for each ensuing calendar year. The road
committee shall forward such request to the village no later than October 31 of
each year. In making the request, the road committee is deemed to acknowledge
that: 1) the costs of such special services shall be paid for from monies held
in the maintenance fund for the road SSA and/or from the levy and extension of
additional special service area taxes in the road SSA and 2) the rate or amount
of special service area taxes to be levied and extended in a road SSA pursuant
to this chapter shall not exceed the maximum rate or amount of special service
area taxes from time to time authorized in the establishing ordinance. The
village may add to the tax levy request an amount sufficient to cover the
administrative costs and consulting fees incurred by the village in
administering the road SSA and may reimburse itself for such administrative
costs and consulting fees at any time by withdrawing monies on deposit in the
maintenance fund, subject to any limitations as may be set forth in the
establishing ordinance. The village may decline to provide the requested
special services whenever the monies held in the maintenance fund for the road
SSA are likely to be insufficient to cover the projected costs of the special
services and the village's administrative costs and consulting fees. (Ord. 11-
12-30, 12-6-2011)
   F.   The road committee shall release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless
each indemnified party from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands,
payments, suits, actions, recoveries, liabilities, judgments, damages, losses
and expenses of every nature or description, including reasonable attorney
fees, opinion witness fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of,
resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from: 1) the negligent,
careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the
contractor under the road contract or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the execution and performance of the
special services, 2) by reason of goods, merchandise or supplies or materials
supplied or used by any of them, regardless of whether such acts or omissions
are authorized, allowed or prohibited by other applicable law, rule or
regulation authorizing or regulating the work, 3) the village's payment of any
costs charged by the contractor for special services or any other action of any
indemnified party which is alleged to constitute a permit, certificate, or
acceptance of the work by the village or 4) any claim or suit alleging the
village acted improperly or unlawfully in relying on the apparent authority of
the road committee to execute the service agreement and/or the road contract.
(Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-2011; amd. Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
   G.   The road committee shall designate one or more officers to receive
notices from the village and shall agree to update such notice list whenever
new officers succeed to office. Any notice from the village to the road
committee may be delivered personally to the officers designated for receiving
notice (which officer designation may be amended from time to time by notice to
the village) and shall be sent by U.S. certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the taxpayer of record for the property as shown in the most
recently issued tax bill. For purposes of giving the notice required in this
section, the refusal by the designated officer to acknowledge receipt of
certified or registered mail or to accept notice given by personal delivery
shall constitute a waiver by such officer of the need for further notice. The
acceptance of the officer of notice delivered personally shall also constitute
a waiver by such owner of the need for further notice, including notice by
mail. (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-2011)
7-5-5: PROVISIONS FOR BOND ORDINANCES:
The special service area taxes to be levied and extended in a road SSA pursuant
to this chapter shall be in addition to any special service area taxes as may
be levied and extended to retire bonds which are secured by the full faith and
credit of the area included in the road SSA. In no event shall monies collected
for retirement of bonds in a road SSA be applied other than as allowed by the
ordinances authorizing the issuance and sale of such bonds. (Ord. 11-1-3, 1-18-
2011)
7-5-6: SPECIAL TAXES:
The establishing ordinance may specify that Special Service Area Taxes may be
levied and extended in the road SSA as a Special Tax in lieu of an ad valorem
Property Tax, to the extent permitted by section 27-75 of the Act. (Ord. 11-1-
3, 1-18-2011)
7-5-7: INSURANCE:
Each contractor under a road contract and each Road Committee that has entered
into a service agreement shall obtain such insurance policies and endorsements
as are required by the Riverwoods insurance and indemnity ordinance. The
Village shall have the right to withhold payment to the contractor until such
compliance is demonstrated. If special services are to be provided under a road
contract and the Road Committee shall fail to obtain or keep in force the
insurance policies and endorsements required by the Riverwoods insurance and
indemnity ordinance, the Village shall have the right, without limitation,
under the establishing ordinance, to procure such insurance for the Road
Committee and to reimburse itself for the cost of premiums by withdrawing
monies on deposit in the Maintenance Fund. (Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
7-5-8: FEES FOR ROAD SSA:
The Village is authorized to charge fees to Road SSAs to recoup the additional
legal, engineering and administrative expenses that the Village incurs in
administering such Road SSAs. The fees for such purpose shall be as set out
from time to time in the annual fee schedule. The fees charged to a Road SSA
shall be payable from the Village account maintained for such Road SSA in which
the funds collected from the annual special tax levy of such Road SSA are
deposited. (Ord. 14-11-26, 11-18-2014; amd. Ord. 19-02-06, 2-5-2019)
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE STREETS USED BY POLICE, FIRE AND EMERGENCY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Findings; Applicability
7-6-2: Prohibited Obstructions
7-6-3: Violation A Nuisance; Village Right To Cure
7-6-4: Penalties For Violation
7-6-1: FINDINGS; APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The president and board of trustees find that a majority of the streets
within the village are privately owned and maintained by the residents living
on such streets, that the use of such private streets is essential for
providing access for police, fire and other emergency vehicles, and that
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village will be impaired
unless police, fire and other emergency vehicles can proceed without danger of
striking or hitting unobserved or unknown barriers, speed bumps or similar
pavement obstructions.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all private streets,
including rights of way or easements for private streets, located in the
village.
   C.   This chapter is adopted by the village as an exercise of its home rule
powers under the Illinois constitution of 1970, and by the authority granted by
Illinois statutes. (Ord. 11-6-12, 6-7-2011)
7-6-2: PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS:
The obstruction of any private street by the placement or installation of
trenches, gates, poles, stones, boulders, railroad ties, fences, berms, speed
bumps or speed humps or other barriers within, below or suspended above the
right of way portion of the private street over which vehicular passage
regularly occurs is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 11-6-12, 6-7-2011)
7-6-3: VIOLATION A NUISANCE; VILLAGE RIGHT TO CURE:
Any obstructions installed or erected in violation of this chapter are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and may be removed by the village, at the
expense of the homeowners' association that is responsible for the maintenance
of such street (or, if there is no association, then at the expense of the
owner or owners of that portion of the street or street easement in which the
obstruction is found), at the expiration of fifteen (15) days following the
mailing of a notice of violation to the responsible parties, by certified mail,
return receipt requested. (Ord. 11-6-12, 6-7-2011)
7-6-4: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Any person or association violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day's
continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the fine
permitted or required to be imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive
relief to prevent an actual or threatened violation of this chapter, and may
also seek mandatory injunctive relief to require the removal of prohibited
obstructions from any private street as shall be necessary to provide unimpeded
access across such street by police, fire and other emergency vehicles. (Ord.
11-6-12, 6-7-2011)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Permit Required - Application
7-7-4: Permit Conditions
7-7-5: Processing Of Application - Fees
7-7-6: Applicability Of Village Right Of Way Ordinance
7-7-7: Exceptions To Applicability
7-7-8: Severability
7-7-9: Conflicts With State And Federal Laws
7-7-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter 7 of Title 6 of the Riverwoods Village Code shall be known, cited
and referred to as the Riverwoods Small Cell Wireless Deployment Ordinance (but
referred to in this Chapter for convenience as "this Ordinance"). The purpose
of this Ordinance is to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the Village by regulating the deployment of small wireless
facilities in a manner consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act, 50 ILCS 835/1 et seq., as from time to time amended (the "Act"). (Ord. 19-
04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of section 10 of the the Act (50 ILCS 835/10) are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the deployment of small wireless
facilities within the Village's boundaries. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED - APPLICATION:
   A.   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits in accordance with this
chapter before collocating a small wireless facility in the Village. It shall
be unlawful to collocate a small wireless facility in the Village without a
permit, except as expressly authorized by this chapter. Each small wireless
facility installed in the Village by permit is deemed to be a permitted use, to
the extent provided in the Act.
   B.   An application shall be received and processed, and permits issued
shall be subject to the conditions and requirements of this chapter. A wireless
provider shall submit the following information to the Director of Community
Services as part of its application, using such forms as may be prescribed by
the Village, unless otherwise directed:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989.
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility.
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed.
      4.   The equipment types and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved.
      6.   Certification that each small wireless facility covered by the
application will comply with the requirements and conditions of this chapter,
to the best of the applicant's knowledge.
      7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
   C.   Consolidated Application. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure. If an
application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may remove
small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat separately
small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete information has been
provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied.
The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation that is approved in
a consolidated application.
   D.   Alternate Placement. The Village shall not specify the placement of
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or require multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole; however,
with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
associated with a new utility pole, the Village shall have the right to propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within one hundred (100) feet of the
proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to
use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions and the
alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional
material costs as determined by the applicant. The Village will require the
applicant to provide a written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division.
   E.   Horizontal Separation. The Village shall not limit the placement of
small wireless facilities mounted on a utility pole or a wireless support
structure by minimum horizontal separation distances.
   F.   Height - Existing Pole. The Village shall have the right to limit the
maximum height of a small wireless facility to ten (10) feet above the utility
pole or wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility is
collocated.
   G.   Height - New Pole. The Village shall have the right to limit the height
of new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which
small wireless facilities are collocated to the higher of:
      1.   Ten (10) feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the authority, that is located
within three hundred (300) feet of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the authority, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of- way within three hundred (300) feet of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
      2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph, an applicant may apply for a variance
from the foregoing requirements, which shall be processed in the manner set
forth Section
7-4-19 of the Riverwoods Village Code.
   H.   Standard Approval Conditions. The Village shall have the right to
reject an application or request modifications to such application, to ensure
compliance with the following conditions:
      1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities
will not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications and otherwise is incompliance with the provisions
of Section
7-7-4 below.
      2.   The application complies with requirements that are imposed by a
contract between an authority and a private property owner that concern design
or construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way.
      3.   The application complies with applicable spacing requirements in
applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way; provided that an applicant may apply for
a variance from the foregoing requirements, which shall be processed in the
manner set forth Section
7-4-19 of the Riverwoods Village Code.
      4.   The application complies with generally applicable standards that
are consistent with this Act and adopted by the Village for construction and
public safety in the rights-of-way, which are codified by the Village as
Chapter 4 of Title 7 of the Riverwoods Village Code.
      5.   The application complies with requirements adopted by the Village
from time to time, concerning the location, size, surface area and height of
small wireless facilities, or the abandonment and removal of small wireless
facilities, provided such requirements are reasonable and nondiscriminatory
requirements that are consistent with the Act.
      6.   The application complies with reasonable stealth, concealment, and
aesthetic requirements, formally adopted from time to time by the Village
Board, to govern small wireless facilities, so long as such requirements apply
to other occupiers of the Village rights-of-way Without limiting the foregoing,
in the absence of a specific policy, the color of small wireless facilities
placed on utility poles should attempt to match or blend with the pole color.
(Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-4: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
Every permit for collocation of a small wireless facility is issued on the
condition that the wireless provider agrees to observe all terms and conditions
of the application or made part of permit issued for such application and these
collocation requirements and conditions, whether or not stated in the
application or permit, as follows:
   A.   Public Safety Space Reservation. The Village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space will not preclude
the collocation of a small wireless facility, unless the Village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   B.   Installation and Maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   C.   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
      1.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
      2.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      3.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
      4.   The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   D.   Local Code Requirements. The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety in force and effect in the Village.
   E.   Abandonment. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment. The notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at the
last known address of the wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is
not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or
cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for municipal utility poles or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
   F.   Notice of Transfer. A wireless provider shall provide written notice to
the Village if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of the Village. Such notice shall include the name and contact
information of the new wireless provider.
   G.   Indemnification. As a condition of accepting each permit, a wireless
provider agrees to and shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider agrees to and shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the Village with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-5: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION - FEES:
   A.   Processing of Applications. The Village shall review, process and
approve, approve with conditions or deny an application in accordance with the
procedure and timelines prescribed by the Act. The Village shall deny an
application which not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application Fees. Application fees are imposed as follows, provided
that the following fees may be amended from time to time as and when the
Village incorporates such changes in the fee schedule adopted pursuant to
Section
1-11-5 of this code:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred and fifty
dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three
hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   C.   No Fee for Maintenance. The Village shall not require an application,
approval or permit, or require any fees or other charges, from a communications
service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance.
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division d. under the Section titled Application Requirements;
or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, even when a permit or application is otherwise
not required, wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   D.   Collocation Completion Deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred and eighty (180) days after
issuance of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to
extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty
(60) days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul
services, and the additional time to complete installation does not exceed
three hundred and sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the
permit shall be void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the
applicant.
   E.   Annual recurring Rate. A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals:
      1.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year; or
      2.   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. The foregoing
rates are subject to amendment in the Village fee schedule. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-
23-2019)
7-7-6: APPLICABILITY OF VILLAGE RIGHT OF WAY ORDINANCE:
A wireless provider shall comply with all provisions of Chapter 4 of Title 7 of
the Riverwoods Village Code, to the maximum extent possible without violating
federal or state laws or regulations, and all references throughout such
chapter:
   A.   To the term "utility" shall be interpreted to include a "wireless
provider" as defined in the Act; and
   B.   To the term "facilities" shall be interpreted to include a "wireless
facility" and "wireless support structure" as defined in the Act.
Without limiting the foregoing, the penalty provisions of Section
7-4-20 of the Riverwoods Village Code shall be applicable to any violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-7: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   C.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in Section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
      1.   To obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable
service or video service; or
      2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-8: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions and subsections of this chapter shall be deemed separable, and
if any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
provisions or applications thereof. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
7-7-9: CONFLICTS WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
In the event that applicable federal or State laws or regulations conflict with
the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating
federal or state laws or regulations. (Ord. 19-04-09, 4-23-2019)
TITLE 8
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Purpose
8-1-4: Applicability And Jurisdiction
8-1-5: Minimum Requirements
8-1-6: Conflicting Provisions
8-1-7: Word Usage And Construction Of Language
8-1-8: Transitional Rules
8-1-9: Severability
8-1-10: Definitions
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the RIVERWOODS DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE. References herein to "this title" shall be interpreted as referring
to the Riverwoods development ordinance, as hereby codified in this Code. (Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The Village adopts this title pursuant to its home rule powers under the
Illinois Constitution of 1970, and, notwithstanding the additional authority
granted to the Village by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-4, and the
Municipal Adoption of Codes and Records Act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 220/
1 et seq., the adoption of each Building, Fire Safety or other published Code
by reference in this title shall be regarded as an exercise of the home rule
powers of the Village. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-3: PURPOSE:
The Village adopts this title and each Building, Fire Safety or other published
Code incorporated herein by reference in order to protect the health, safety
and general welfare of the residents of the Village by:
   A.   Establishing and enforcing minimum standards of safe design and
construction for all buildings, structures or part thereof, equipment and
appurtenances thereto that are constructed, altered, repaired, wrecked or moved
within the limits of the Village;
   B.   Assisting in the protection of private lands from erosion, earth
movement, flooding and assuring the maximum preservation of the natural scenic
character of the Village by establishing minimum standards and requirements
relating to land grading, erosion control excavations and fills and by
establishing procedures by which these standards and requirements may be
enforced; and enforcing and promoting the purposes of the Lake County watershed
development ordinance, as such ordinance has been adopted by reference in the
Village;
   C.   Encouraging the placement of buildings or structures on any land as it
relates to adjacent lands so as to maximize visually pleasant relationships and
minimize problems which could result in increased development or maintenance
costs or environmental damage to the land in question as well as surrounding
property; (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
   D.   Enforcing and promoting the purposes of the Riverwoods tree and
woodland protection ordinance and assuring that their provisions are adhered
to; and (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
   E.   Establishing and enforcing safe construction site safety practices to
minimize the adverse effects of construction activity on nearby properties,
including private and public streets and facilities. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-4: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to all development, public and private, within the
limits of the Village. The construction, alteration, enlargement, repair,
wrecking or relocation of any building or structure or the performance of any
site development work are subject to this title as well as other provisions of
this Code that may regulate such activities, including the following: (Ord. 07-
4-6, 4-17-2007)
   A.   Reserved. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
   B.   The regulations concerning public ways and property (title 7 of this
Code); (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
   C.   The Riverwoods zoning ordinance (title 9 of this Code), including the
Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance (title 9, chapter 6 of this
Code); (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
   D.   The subdivision control ordinance (title 10 of this Code);
   E.   The Lake County watershed development ordinance (incorporated by
reference and adopted as title 11, chapter 1 of this Code); and
   F.   The Riverwoods sign ordinance (title 12 of this Code). (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
8-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The standards of this title are minimum requirements. The issuance of any
permit, certificate or approval in accordance with the standards and
requirements of this title shall not relieve the recipient of such permit,
certificate or approval from the responsibility for complying with all other
applicable requirements of any County, State or Federal agency, having
jurisdiction over the structures or land uses for which the permit, certificate
or approval was issued. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-6: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
If the provisions of any Building, Fire Safety or other published Code adopted
by reference in this title shall conflict with each other, the more restrictive
provision will control. If the provisions of any Village ordinances regulating
site development work within the Village shall conflict with each other, the
more restrictive provision will control. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-7: WORD USAGE AND CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
   A.   All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this title
shall be construed according to the purpose set forth in section
8-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples
that use terms such as "including", "such as", or similar language are intended
to provide examples and are not exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
   C.   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute,
regulation, or document, that reference shall be construed as referring to the
most recent edition of such resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or
document or to the relevant successor document, unless otherwise expressly
stated.
   D.   Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or
another officer or employee of the Village to perform an act or duty, that
provision shall be construed as authorizing the department head or officer to
delegate that responsibility to others over whom they have authority.
   E.   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases that may have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning. (See also section
8-1-10, "Definitions", of this chapter.) However, the words "shall", "will",
and "must" are mandatory; the words "may" and "should" are advisory and
discretionary terms. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: "and" indicates that all
connected items, conditions, provisions, or events apply; and "or" indicates
that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may
apply. Words used in one tense (past, present, or future) include all other
tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. The singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-
2007)
8-1-8: TRANSITIONAL RULES:
Nothing in this title or any published code herein adopted shall be construed
to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired
or liabilities incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing
under provisions of this title as they existed prior to adoption of the
ordinance codified herein; nor shall any right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
8-1-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction rules any provision of this title
invalid, that ruling shall not affect any provision not specifically included
in the judgment. If any court of competent jurisdiction rules invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, or use, that ruling shall not affect the application of
this title to any property, building, other structure, or use not specifically
included in the judgment. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-1-10: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING: As defined in the Riverwoods zoning ordinance.
BUILDING AND ZONING COMMITTEE: The Building and Zoning Committee of the Board
of Trustees.
BUILDING CODE: The collective term for the Building, Fire, Mechanical,
Plumbing, Life Safety, Property Maintenance and other published Codes that the
Village adopts by reference in this title.
BUILDING DEPARTMENT: An executive department of the Village that includes the
Director of Community Services, the building official and such other employees
as the Board of Trustees may provide.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: As defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for any construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building or the making of any other improvement
or repair when a permit for such work is required under the Building Code,
pursuant to chapter 4 of this title.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: The specific inspections and tests where required
have been performed and that such tests comply with the applicable requirements
of this title.
COMPLETION SECURITY: The letter of credit or cash deposit to be delivered to
the Building Department by the permittee to guarantee completion of work
authorized by a building permit or site development permit.
CUBIC YARD: The amount of material in excavation or fill measured by the method
of "average end areas".
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
FILLING: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved
(other than by natural forces or events) to a new location and shall include
the conditions resulting therefrom.
GRADING: Excavation or filling or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or filling.
LAKE COUNTY WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: The Lake County watershed
development ordinance of Lake County, Illinois, adopted by reference as part of
title 11 of this Code.
MAJOR VEGETATION: Any highly desirable tree or protected tree or protected
woodland (as such terms are defined in the Riverwoods tree and woodland
protection ordinance).
PARCEL: One or more contiguous lots or parcels under one ownership located in
the Village.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site preparation permit, building permit or
site development permit is issued.
PERSON IN CHARGE: As defined in section
8-3-6 of this title.
PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT, ENGINEER OR LANDSCAPE CONSULTANT: In the case of an
architect or engineer, any professional architect or engineer, respectively,
who is registered or licensed in the State; and, in the case of landscape
consultant, a person who has training and experience as a professional
landscape architect, forester or arborist suitable for the preparation of tree
inventories, tree planting plans and woodland area delineations as required by
the Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance.
REMOVAL: The physical detachment or elimination of major vegetation, or the
effective detachment or elimination of major vegetation, through damage,
cutting of major vegetation to the ground, complete extraction or killing by
spraying, girdling, root cutting, or otherwise; however, "remove" or "removal"
does not include the pruning of trees in accordance with "Standard Practices
for Tree, Shrub, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300) and "Tree-
Pruning Guidelines" published by the International Society of Arboriculture or
similar standards and guidelines from time to time recommended by the Village
Forester.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof where grading
is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for any site
development work to be performed on a parcel pursuant to chapter 5 of this
title.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan prepared under the direction of a professional
engineer that shows the existing and proposed conditions of the property to be
improved, the method and location of erosion control measures to be
implemented, proposed alterations of storm runoff or grading of lands,
installation of buried utilities, and the protection and removal of major
vegetation for the construction of buildings and other necessary improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT WORK: Any grading, filling or excavation on any parcel in
excess of ten (10) cubic yards in quantity, or removal of major vegetation or
alteration of overland drainage routes or any activity that is regulated by the
Lake County watershed development ordinance. Adding gravel to existing
driveways (to repair potholes) does not constitute site development work (so
long as the elevation of the driveway above adjoining natural grade is not
increased).
SITE PREPARATION PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for predevelopment and
site safety activities on a parcel that must be completed in certain instances
before a building permit or site development permit will issue.
SITE PREPARATION PLAN: As defined in the Riverwoods zoning ordinance.
STRUCTURE: As defined in the Riverwoods zoning ordinance.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: One or more professional engineers engaged as an independent
contractor by the Village to serve as the Village's engineering consultant to
review all development activities in the Village, assist in the interpretation,
administration and enforcement of this title and perform such other duties as
may be assigned from time to time by the Village President.
VILLAGE FORESTER: One or more professional landscape consultants who are
engaged as an independent contractor by the Village to serve as the Village's
forestry consultant to review all development activities in the Village, assist
in the interpretation, administration and enforcement of this title and perform
such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Village
President.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village. (Ord. 07-
4-6, 4-17-2007; amd. Ord. 09-7-15, 7-7-2009; Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Director Of Community Services
8-2-2: Building Official
8-2-3: Staff Review Committee
8-2-4: Permit Process Flow Chart
8-2-1: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY SERVICES:
There is hereby created the position of director of community services who
shall be appointed by the village president with the approval by a majority
vote of the board of trustees. The director of community services shall have
control and supervision over the building official and all other employees
assigned to the building department, subject to the supervision of the village
president. If suitably trained for inspection and code review services, the
director of community services shall perform the duties of the building
official at the request of the village president. The basic duties of the
director of community services shall be as follows:
   A.   Be responsible for the administration of all provisions of this title
for which administrative responsibilities are not otherwise assigned.
   B.   Receive all applications for site development permits and issue site
development permits in accordance with the requirements of this title.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary that may be contained in any
other provisions of this title, no site development permit shall be issued or
delivered by the director of community services to any person unless the permit
is countersigned by a member of the building and zoning committee.
   C.   In matters regarding civil engineering design, such as grading and
drainage, storm water detention, wetlands mitigation, utility extensions and
connections, the director of community services shall consult with and rely on
the advice rendered by the village engineer or other professional engineers
licensed by the state of Illinois recommended by the village engineer and
engaged by the village. In matters regarding the adequacy of landscaping, tree
preservation and protection of woodlands as required by village ordinances, the
director of community services shall consult with and rely on the advice
rendered by the village forester.
   D.   Make or arrange with the village engineer and village forester for the
necessary practical inspections of work performed in the field or reasonably
ascertain whether all conditions of each site development permit, ordinance
granting a variation, subdivision plat, development or easement agreement or
special use permit are complied with.
   E.   Keep a record of all inspections made, of reports rendered and of
notices of orders issued and deposit such records in the individual property
file. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-2-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
There is hereby created the position of an enforcement officer to be called the
building official who shall be an employee in the building department and under
the direction of the director of community services. The building official
shall be appointed by the village president with the approval by a majority
vote of the board of trustees. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the
building official shall have the powers and duties assigned to the position of
building official as set forth in the building code, and any reference therein
to "administrative authority" or "code official" shall refer to the building
official. Any person serving as building official shall have a broad knowledge
of building construction insofar as practical and technical concepts including
the related fields of plumbing, heating, ventilating and electrical
construction. The building official's basic duties shall be as follows:
   A.   Set up, keep and maintain a file of applications, permits issued,
plats, diagrams, plans and other data required by this title to be filed.
   B.   Receive all applications for building permits and approve the issuance
of building permits when the applications comply with the requirements of this
title. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary that may be contained in
the building code adopted in this title or in other provisions of this title,
no building permit shall be issued or delivered by the building official to any
person unless the permit is countersigned by a member of the building and
zoning committee.
   C.   Receive reports of inspectors of Lake County or recognized inspection
services, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability, in
connection with reviews of commercial projects or code matters beyond the
general competence of the building official, provided such reports shall be
made in writing and certified by a responsible person of such agency or
service.
   D.   Make the necessary practical inspections of work performed in the field
or reasonably ascertain whether all regulations of this title to property,
buildings or structures are complied with.
   E.   Keep a record of all inspections made, of reports rendered and of
notices of orders issued and deposit such records in the individual property
file previously mentioned.
   F.   Upon satisfactory completion of the construction described, the
building official shall, if said construction is in compliance with the terms
of this title, issue a certificate of occupancy and no structure shall be
occupied or used for any purpose prior to the issuance of said certificate.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-2-3: STAFF REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The staff review committee shall be chaired by the village president and shall
include a member of the building and zoning committee, the director of
community services, the village engineer and the village forester and may
include such other village officials, agents or employees as from time to time
deemed necessary by the village president. The staff review committee shall
perform such functions and have such powers and duties as directed by the
village president with regard to oversight of the building department,
including the following:
   A.   Overseeing the administration and enforcement of this title and
ensuring that all construction activities and development proposals comply with
the standards of this title;
   B.   Conducting preliminary and informational meetings on proposed
developments;
   C.   Conducting preapplication meetings with applicants for the purpose of
preliminary review of proposed text amendments, zoning map amendments, special
use applications, site development plans and subdivision plats and promoting
solutions that will achieve the most desirable site design; and
   D.   Interpreting the requirements of this title as applied to particular
circumstances when such interpretation does not require the approval by the
board of trustees.
The staff review committee will not hold any public hearings or perform the
duties of the plan commission or zoning board of appeals. If a subdivision
plat, text amendment, special use or other matter within the purview of the
plan commission is involved, following any preapplication meetings with the
staff review committee, the applicant will be required to submit an application
to the plan commission in accordance with village ordinances. If a variation
under the zoning ordinance is required, following any preapplication meetings
with the staff review committee, the applicant will be required to submit an
application to the zoning board of appeals in accordance with village
ordinances. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-2-4: PERMIT PROCESS FLOW CHART:
   A.   Step 1: Determine which permits are needed for application, pick up
development handbook and meet with director of community services.
 
Permit Type                        Type Of Project
Building                           Projects of limited scope without grading
                                   may require only a building permit.
                                   More extensive projects with construction
                                   deliveries and staging or involving tree
                                   removal may require a site preparation plan
                                   or tree removal permit, as determined by the
Site preparation; building         director of community services. If a site
                                   preparation plan is required, the site
                                   preparation work under a site preparation
                                   permit must be completed before the building
                                   permit will issue.
                                   Construction involving building and grading
Site preparation; building; site   will require 3 permits: site preparation
development                        permit, building permit and site development
                                   permit.
                                   Grading with no building activity requires a
Site preparation; site development site preparation permit and site development
                                   permit.
 
In all cases where a site preparation plan is required, then all work under the
site preparation permit must be completed before the other permits will issue.
A site preparation permit may also serve as the tree removal permit.
   B.   Step 2: File completed applications, including supplemental permit
applications when required.
      1.   Building permit application requirements are set forth in section
8-4-2 of this title and set forth in further detail in the Development
Handbook. The building official will review such applications.
      2.   Site preparation permit and site development permit application
requirements are set forth in sections
8-3-3 and
8-5-2 of this title and set forth in further detail in the Development
Handbook. The Director of Community Services, Village Engineer and Village
Forester will review such applications. Additional reviews may be required by
the Village's wetland consultant.
      3.   For site preparation permits and site development permits, the
applicant may be required to obtain a wetland survey, tree inventory, woodland
delineation and other data that may be difficult to obtain at certain times of
the year, and the applicant should factor the delays inherent in obtaining such
information into the applicant's intended construction schedule. For example, a
completed site development permit application may be required to include these
supplemental permit applications:
         a.   A completed tree removal permit application form.
         b.   A completed Lake County watershed development ordinance permit
application form.
         c.   A copy of a Lake County wetland inventory map marked to show the
subject property.
Applicants should consult the Development Handbook for all submittal
requirements.
   C.   Step 3A: If no site preparation is required, the applicant posts street
restoration and completion security as required herein, pays permit fees and a
building permit is issued, which must be posted on the property.
   D.   Step 3B: If site preparation is required, the applicant posts street
restoration security as required herein, and then the site preparation permit
will be issued, which must be posted on the property.
   E.   Step 3C: After completing site preparation work, the applicant posts
the required completion security, and then building permit and site development
permit will be issued, both of which must be posted on the property. (Ord. 07-
4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 3
SITE MANAGEMENT, SITE PREPARATION PERMITS, STREET RESTORATION SECURITY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Safe Site Management Practices
8-3-2: Site Preparation Plan And Permit
8-3-3: Contents Of Site Preparation Plan
8-3-4: Street Restoration Security
8-3-5: Issuance Of Site Preparation Permit
8-3-6: Displaying Permits, Contact Information And Person In Charge
8-3-1: SAFE SITE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Any permittee engaged in construction for which a site preparation permit,
building permit or site development permit is issued shall keep and observe and
shall cause its contractors, agents and employees to keep and observe the
following requirements:
   A.   All construction and building sites shall be kept and maintained free
and clear of debris and refuse generated by site preparation, construction,
reconstruction or demolition of buildings and structures.
   B.   Construction debris and refuse containment shall be required for all
job sites. Containment shall occur on the property that is the subject of the
permit, and shall be within a dumpster, structure, or container that can be
covered to prevent windblown debris. All such dumpsters, structures, or
containers shall be covered at all times when no work is being performed on the
property that is the subject of the permit.
   C.   When dumpsters are provided they shall be located on private property
and set back so as not to encroach on an interior side yard, as defined by the
Riverwoods zoning ordinance as amended.
   D.   Soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be provided and
maintained as required by the village engineer.
   E.   As required by the state of Illinois plumbing code, in the case of new
construction or major renovation work when existing sanitary facilities are not
yet available, the construction sites shall be provided a portable toilet. The
portable toilet shall be provided not later than immediately after completion
of excavation of the foundation. The location of the portable toilet shall be
set back a minimum of six feet (6') from all property lines. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
8-3-2: SITE PREPARATION PLAN AND PERMIT:
The director of community services shall determine whether the scope of a
project for which an applicant seeks a building permit merits the preparation
of a site preparation plan to minimize damage to the land in question as well
as surrounding property (i.e., soil erosion, damage to storm water drainage
routes, culverts, protected trees and surrounding streets) and to maintain an
orderly, secure, safe and clean construction site. If a site preparation plan
is required in circumstances when only a building permit is being applied for,
then the applicant shall apply for a site preparation permit. If a site
preparation plan is required in circumstances when a site development permit is
being applied for, then the applicant shall prepare and submit the site
preparation plan as part of the submittal requirements for the site development
permit. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-3-3: CONTENTS OF SITE PREPARATION PLAN:
A site preparation plan shall include such information as may be required by
the director of community services, village engineer or village forester to
minimize damage to the land in question as well as surrounding property and to
demonstrate safe site construction management, including drawings or narrative
description for one or more of the following categories of site preparation
work to be performed:
   A.   Removal of trees, tree pruning, root pruning, and other tree care
activities that are proposed in the permit application.
   B.   Installation of protective tree fencing. All protective tree fencing
shall be chainlink fence construction with anchored posts and chainlink fabric
meeting such specifications as from time to time required by the director of
community services to establish sturdy and reliable fencing.
   C.   Installation of erosion control measures and construction driveway.
   D.   Installation of perimeter area construction fencing. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
   E.   Installation of temporary markers delineating the limits of protected
woodland under the Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance or
permanent "protected area" markers at the boundaries of wetlands, wetland
buffers, or protected areas proposed to remain undisturbed. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
   F.   Abandonment of existing water well or installation of protective
fencing around well that is to remain.
   G.   Shutoff of gas lines or other utilities.
   H.   Location and delivery of portable toilet and trash receptacle.
   I.   Installation of contractor sign meeting the requirements of section
8-3-6 of this chapter.
   J.   If excavation is required for a new structure, foundation, utility
installation or drainage improvement, then the site preparation plan shall
indicate the: 1) installation of a single construction entrance, which may be
in the location of the permanent driveway, from the adjoining public or private
street to the lot and 2) installation of additional fencing in the construction
area so that all construction traffic to and from the construction area uses
the construction driveway. The construction driveway shall be constructed with
three inch (3") crushed limestone to a minimum compacted depth of six inches
(6").
   K.   The site preparation plan shall indicate that, prior to installation of
the construction driveway, the applicant shall be required to install, repair
or replace culverts and ditches so that the natural flow of surface stormwater
on or along the lot is not impeded by the construction driveway or debris and
construction materials. All culverts shall be installed, repaired or replaced
in accordance with the requirements under title 7, chapter 1, "Culverts,
Ditches And Swales", of this Code. The applicant is responsible for securing
all necessary approvals from the Village or other governmental bodies having
jurisdiction before locating its construction driveway. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-
2007)
8-3-4: STREET RESTORATION SECURITY:
Prior to the issuance of any site preparation permit, building permit, or site
development permit, the applicant shall schedule a video and photographic
inspection of the adjoining public or private street to be conducted by the
Building Department, which shall prepare a dated VHS videotape or digital video
disc (DVD) clearly showing the existing condition of all portions of the street
(s), shoulders, parkways, ditches, and culverts along or within one hundred
feet (100') of the property to be developed (i.e., along the entire lot line
adjoining the street and extending from each end of such lot line for a
distance of 100 feet along the public or private street right-of-way beyond the
boundary of the lot), and such VHS videotape or DVD inspection report shall be
admissible as sufficient evidence in any court proceeding or other dispute
between the applicant and the Village concerning the condition of such public
or private street prior to the applicant's activities. Prior to the issuance of
a building permit, site preparation permit, or site development permit, the
applicant shall also deliver to the Village a form of security herein described
(the "street restoration security") to run to the benefit of the Village to
protect the Village and hold it free and harmless from all claims or rights of
action arising from or claimed to be due from the use of said street, and for
the further purpose of guaranteeing the restoration of such street or streets
in the event of any damage or injury caused by such construction vehicles. The
street restoration security shall consist of either: a) a refundable cash
deposit or b) an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit in a form
satisfactory to the Village. A permit applicant applying for a building permit
and site development permit for the same construction project (i.e.,
construction or remodeling of a single-family residence) shall be required to
deliver only one street restoration security. The street restoration security
may be posted by the owner of the property or the owner's contractor, as the
permit applicant, but in any event only one street restoration security shall
be required for a single construction project. A permit applicant applying for
permits for different construction projects on the same street shall be
required to furnish one street restoration security for each construction
project. The amount of the street restoration security shall be the greater of:
a) two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or b) an amount based on a sliding scale
related to the estimated cost of construction provided in the permit
application, as follows:
 
Estimated Cost Of Construction Street Restoration Security
$0.00 to $625,000.00           4 percent of cost
Over $625,000.00               $25,000.00 plus 3 percent of cost over
                               $650,000.00
 
The return of the cash deposit or letter of credit shall be conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the conditions and provisions of the permits, the
plans accompanying such permits and other applicable provisions of this Code.
If there shall be any damage to the public or private street used during the
applicant's construction, based upon a comparison of the video and photographic
inspection conducted by the building department, then the applicant's
activities shall be presumed to be the primary cause of such damage and the
village may use the street restoration security to restore the condition of the
damaged street. In case of any unresolved dispute or suit by or among the
owners of any privately owned street, to which the village is or at any time
may become a party, regarding the street restoration security or the repairs
made or to be made to such damaged private street, the village shall be
authorized to comply with any and all orders, judgments or decrees entered or
issued by any court with or without jurisdiction, and the village shall have
the right to file an action in the nature of an interpleader and deposit the
street restoration security with any such court, and the village shall have a
lien on the street restoration security for any and all attorney fees, expert
witness fees, court costs, and any other expenses the village may have incurred
or become liable for on account of the holding of the street restoration
security or using the proceeds thereof for repairing the damaged street. (Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-3-5: ISSUANCE OF SITE PREPARATION PERMIT:
If the objectives of minimizing damage to the land in question as well as
surrounding property and all requirements relating to safe site construction
management are demonstrated in the site preparation plan, and if the required
street restoration security is posted, and if all other requirements are
satisfied for the issuance of a building permit or site development permit in
accordance with this title, then the director of community service shall
indicate his approval of the site preparation plan by signing and issuing a
site preparation permit to the applicant. Under the site preparation permit,
the applicant shall perform the work indicated in the site preparation plan and
shall not perform any work for which a building permit or site development
permit must separately be issued. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-3-6: DISPLAYING PERMITS, CONTACT INFORMATION AND PERSON IN CHARGE:
When any site preparation permit, building permit or site development permit is
issued for any parcel, such permits, including the complete plans for all work
approved by such permits bearing the stamp of approval of the village, shall be
maintained at the site during the progress of the work. Until the final
inspection is made, the permit cards and a construction sign shall be displayed
on the perimeter area construction fencing or elsewhere as approved by the
director of community services setting forth the following: the name of the
contractor, name of the "person in charge", an emergency telephone number or
pager that is always answered so that the contractor can be reached, and the
hours and days of the week when construction work is permitted to take place on
the site. The person in charge shall be that individual who is responsible for
all construction operations on the site, including maintenance of protective
fencing and erosion control measures, containment of construction debris, and
scheduling of village inspections. The person in charge shall ensure that all
contractors and subcontractors working on this project are supplied with copies
of the approved plans as necessary. The person in charge shall be the sole
point of contact for all correspondence or direction from the village. The
person in charge shall have at the project at all times, as the owner's agent,
a competent English speaking superintendent capable of reading and thoroughly
understanding the approved plans and thoroughly experienced in the type of work
being performed, who shall receive instructions from the building official or
authorized representatives. The person in charge shall have full authority to
execute orders or directions of the building official without delay, and to
promptly supply such materials, equipment, tools, labor, and incidentals as may
be required. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Building Permit Required
8-4-2: Application For Building Permit
8-4-3: Issuance Of Building Permit
8-4-4: Alterations In Plans
8-4-5: Inspections And Stop Work Orders
8-4-6: Permit Fees
8-4-7: Time Limit On Permits; Extension Fees
8-4-8: Completion Security For Construction
8-4-9: Certificates Of Occupancy
8-4-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct, alter, repair, wreck or move any building, structure
or part thereof or perform any work regulated by the building code in violation
of the provisions of the building code or any other provisions of this title.
It shall be unlawful to vary from the terms of any building permit, including
the plans and specifications relative thereto, in connection with any such
work; provided that a building permit may be amended upon proper application as
provided herein. In all cases where a building permit is required under the
building code, no person shall construct, alter, repair, wreck or move any
building, structure or part thereof or perform any work regulated by the
building code without first obtaining a building permit for such work approved
by the building official. Without limiting the instances in which building
permits are required under the building code, the following examples of work
require building permits:
   A.   Single-family residential, office, institutional or commercial
construction;
   B.   All additions or modifications to existing buildings or structures,
including single-family residential additions;
   C.   Additions and enlargements to garages and barns;
   D.   Modifications or changes to existing structures requiring major
interior structural changes;
   E.   All major modifications to electrical or plumbing or heating or other
utilities;
   F.   All modifications to swimming pools or other recreational structures
with major architectural features;
   G.   Replacement or major modifications of plumbing facilities (within the
structure);
   H.   Replacement or major modifications of plumbing facilities (outside of
premises such as septic tanks and drainage fields);
   I.   Replacement or major modifications of water supply wells and
distribution facilities;
   J.   Replacement or major modifications of oil fired heating facilities;
   K.   Replacement or major modifications of gas fired heating facilities; and
   L.   Replacement or major modifications of electrical wiring and other
electrical facilities. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-2: APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT:
Application for a building permit shall be made by the owner or his agent to
the village by filing with the building department, on application forms
devised and supplied by the building official, the following:
   A.   A copy of the building permit application with all the information
requested thereon and signed by the owner or authorized agent.
   B.   A copy of a "plat of survey" certified by a duly licensed Illinois land
surveyor. In addition to the mandatory information required on such certified
plat there shall be the surveyor's statement as to the area in square feet
contained in the tract represented on said plat exclusive of all easements for
ingress or egress. There shall also be superimposed on said plat an outline to
scale of all structures present and proposed with dimensions to indicate their
exact location on the tract of land with relation to the boundary lines of said
tract. The structures referred to shall include walls, septic tanks and septic
drainage fields, and other underground utilities. This survey is to be retained
by the village as part of a permanent record.
   C.   Three (3) copies of complete plans of the proposed structure drawn to a
scale, no smaller than one-fourth inch equal to one foot (1/4" = 1') with all
dimensions figured accurately. The plans and specifications shall be
sufficiently explicit and complete so that the proposed structure can be
constructed therefrom by any competent contractor, builder or engineer without
further direction. In addition the plans shall indicate the enclosed area in
square feet of floor space and the net volume of the structure in cubic feet.
   D.   All plans, computations and specifications required for a building
permit application for new construction work, alteration, repair, expansion,
addition or modification work involving the practice of professional
architecture or engineering, as defined by the laws of the state, shall be
prepared by, or under the supervision of, and signed and sealed by a
professional architect or engineer.
   E.   Excepting that an owner may design, draw plans and supervise
construction of any building, structure or part thereof to be constructed on
his parcel, specifically for his own use and occupancy and provided all
provisions of this title and any other provision that may apply to the proposed
work shall have been complied with and provided further that this exception
shall only apply to the owner's use and occupancy of a single parcel of land at
any one time and for no longer than a two (2) year duration, the following
certificate shall appear on all sheets of plans submitted for approval:
      Designed and drawn by              (signature)                        
(dated)
   F.   In any case when a site development permit is required under this
title, the application for a building permit must be accompanied by an
application for a site development permit, and all requirements for applying
for a site development permit must be satisfied prior to or concurrently with
the review and approval of any building permit.
   G.   The applicant shall submit a site preparation plan, unless waived by
the director of community services for projects of limited scope. (Ord. 07-4-6,
4-17-2007)
8-4-3: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   The approval of applications and issuance of building permits shall be
the duty of the building official and then only after proof of knowledge of
regulations and building code adopted in this title, along with proof of
competency to do the work under the direction, supervision and responsibility
of a duly registered person authorized under the laws of the state of Illinois
to make such installations and alterations, has been made to the satisfaction
of the building official.
   B.   If the building official finds that all relevant provisions of this
title have been complied with, he shall indicate his approval of the building
permit application by signing the building permit and directing the applicant
to deposit the applicable permit fee and completion security with the building
department, provided that in any case when a site development permit is
required under this title, the building official shall not approve issuance of
a building permit until all requirements for obtaining a site development
permit are satisfied.
   C.   If the building official has approved the issuance of a building
permit, then the director of community services shall proceed to consider the
issuance of a site preparation permit under section
8-3-2 of this title, if one is required.
   D.   When the director of community services determines that:
      1.   The work to be performed under the site preparation permit, if one
is required, has been properly completed (for which work he shall schedule
inspections of the site by the village engineer and village forester) and
street restoration security properly posted; and
      2.   The completion security required under section
8-4-8, "Completion Security For Construction", of this chapter has been
provided,
he shall so inform the building official who shall then be authorized to
release the building permit to the applicant. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-4: ALTERATIONS IN PLANS:
Alterations in the plans and specifications submitted for a building permit
shall be made only after the issuance of an amended permit issued in the same
manner as an original permit except that the fees required shall not be charged
except insofar as said alterations would have increased the original permit
fees. No amended permit issued shall be valid unless signed by the building
official. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-5: INSPECTIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Subject to all applicable provisions and protections contained in and
afforded by the United States and Illinois constitutions, and other applicable
laws or regulations, the building official shall have the power to make or
cause to be made entry into any building or premises in the village at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections where the work of
constructing, altering or repairing any building or structure is in process; or
where any plumbing or electric work is being installed, altered or repaired.
The building official, after due notice, shall have the power to order all
construction, alteration or repair work to be stopped in any building or
premises in the village when such work is being done in violation of any
provision of this title or other village ordinances, provided that if the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within
twenty four (24) hours. Such written stop order shall be served personally or
by certified mail, return receipt requested. All work thus stopped shall not be
resumed except if the conditions are remedied or violation eliminated and
written permission to resume work from the building official is granted.
   B.   The failure to comply with or the unauthorized removal or defacing of a
stop order or continuing to work in violation of a stop order issued pursuant
to this section shall constitute an offense. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-6: PERMIT FEES:
Permit and inspection fees shall be as set forth in fee schedules to be adopted
from time to time by the board of trustees pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this code. Before any work is started, the constructor or permittee
shall pay to the village clerk the permit and inspection fees for the work
covered by the building permit as specified in the fee schedule. No building
permit or amendment to a building permit shall be issued until the fees
prescribed for such permits are paid. If, in the opinion of the building
official, any applicant for a permit has provided with his application an
incorrect estimate of the cost of the work to be performed thereunder, the
building official shall make a correct estimate of the cost of the work and
adjust the permit fee based on the annual fee schedule. The applicant shall pay
any increased permit fee, which may be due upon written demand from the
building official. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-7: TIME LIMIT ON PERMITS; EXTENSION FEES:
Building permits shall have the time limits set forth in the building code;
however, they may be extended for a like period after payment of ten percent
(10%) of the original permit charge and provided that only one such extension
is permitted. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-8: COMPLETION SECURITY FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Before commencing work for which a building permit is required, the
person obtaining the building permit shall deposit an irrevocable,
unconditional letter of credit issued by a national bank or Illinois state bank
with an office in the Chicago metropolitan area or make a cash deposit with the
village. The amount of the letter of credit or cash deposit shall be determined
according to the fee schedule adopted from time to time by the board of
trustees pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this code.
   B.   The deposit shall be held by the village until such a time as full
occupancy approval is granted by the building official. If all provisions of
governing ordinances of the village are met, the total amount of deposit
exclusive of any interest earned shall be returned to the permittee. In the
event of permit expiration, the building official or his agent may at their
discretion draw down and retain funds from the completion security to renew
said permit (see section
8-4-7, "Time Limit On Permits; Extension Fees", of this chapter), with the
balance refundable upon full occupancy approval. The permittee may be required
to post an additional amount, which will maintain his continuing completion
bond deposit.
   C.   If the permittee fails to perform the work in accordance with this
title and the conditions of the building permit, the building official shall
recommend to the board of trustees, and the board of trustees shall decide
whether to draw down and retain funds from the completion security to remedy
any violation. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-4-9: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No certificate of occupancy, as required under the Riverwoods zoning
code, shall be issued for the occupancy of any building constructed or altered
after the adoption of this title unless the building has been constructed or
altered in compliance with the provisions of this title. Upon making final
inspection of any construction work for which a permit is required, the
building official may execute a document indicating that such final inspection
has been made and that he has found no known violation of the provisions of
this title in connection therewith, but such document shall not be construed to
be a certificate or statement that the work has been done properly or that it
has been done in accordance with private agreements or contracts.
   B.   In addition to the certificate of compliance with the provisions of
this title, the certificate of occupancy shall state the purposes for which the
building may be used in its several parts, and all special stipulations of the
permit, if any.
   C.   Upon request of the holder of a building permit, the building official
may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for complete or partial
occupancy of a building or structure; providing the interior of the building on
the premises complies with the requirements of this title and such temporary
occupancy or use can be safely undertaken and will not jeopardize life or
property and the only remaining work under the building permit to be performed
consists of exterior landscaping. Such temporary certificates of occupancy
shall be issued for a period expiring on next following May 15, by which time
all exterior landscaping shall be installed, unless a further extension for
good cause shown is granted by the building official. To obtain a temporary
certificate of occupancy, the holder of a building permit must:
      1.   Sign a written agreement with the village stipulating remaining work
to be done and/or deficiencies, which must be corrected. Such agreement may
contain additional stipulations as may from time to time be deemed in the best
interest of the village by the building official. Such agreement shall be
cosigned by the owner, contract purchaser or the tenant;
      2.   Post an additional cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit
acceptable to the village in an amount equivalent to the cost of completing
and/or remedying all items stipulated in the agreement as recommended by the
village forester; providing, however, that such amount shall not be less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Failure by the holder of a temporary certificate of occupancy to obtain a final
certificate of occupancy by the date established by the building official shall
result in automatic forfeiture of the related cash deposit or irrevocable
letter of credit. The building official shall use such forfeited funds to
complete the work indicated on the inspection report attached to the temporary
certificate of occupancy, which was issued for the premises. Such forfeiture
shall not impair the right of the village to enforce any and all remedies
available to it by reason of any violation, including the right to recover a
fine or penalty or seek injunctive relief. Any balance remaining in the cash
deposit or irrevocable letter of credit not required to complete the work shall
be refunded to the depositor.
   D.   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued within five (5) working days
after written application therefor, if the building at the time of such
application meets the requirements therefor. If the building does not meet the
requirements, the building official shall inform the applicant within five (5)
working days of the specific deficiencies on which the denial of a certificate
of occupancy is based, citing particular provisions of the adopted codes and
ordinances of the village with respect to which compliance is lacking.
   E.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any new use or change
in use of a building or structure or portion thereof unless such building or
structure or portion thereof meets the standards for such use as required by
this chapter. The use of a building or premises shall not be deemed to have
changed because of a temporary vacancy or change of ownership or tenancy. The
reestablishment in a building, after a change of occupancy has been made, of a
prior use that would not have been permitted in a new building of the same type
of construction is prohibited.
   F.   No plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning or electrical work,
except as otherwise provided hereinafter, for which a permit is required shall
be used in whole or in part until a certificate of compliance has been issued
by the building official stating that all work has been done in accordance with
the requirements of this title and other applicable laws, codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 5
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Site Development Permit Required
8-5-2: Application For Site Development Permit
8-5-3: Issuance Of Site Development Permit
8-5-4: Inspections And Stop Work Orders
8-5-5: Scheduled Inspections; Certificate Of Completion
8-5-6: No Liability For Inspections
8-5-7: Permit Fees
8-5-8: Escrow Fees
8-5-9: Completion Security
8-5-10: Expiration Of Permit
8-5-11: Revocation Of Permit
8-5-12: Exceptions
8-5-13: Appeals
8-5-14: Nuisances Not Excused
8-5-1: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall perform any site development work on any parcel or part thereof
without first obtaining a site development permit, unless the scope of work
involved is fully authorized by a tree removal permit under the Riverwoods tree
and woodland protection ordinance. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007; amd. Ord. 18-03-05,
3-6-2018)
8-5-2: APPLICATION FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Application for a site development permit shall be made in writing to
the Building Department by the owner of record or his authorized agent and
submitted on forms furnished by the Director of Community Services for that
purpose, together with all other items specified in a site development permit
application checklist. The Director of Community Services may from time to time
update and revise the requirements of the site development permit application.
At a minimum, the application shall contain the following items to the extent
applicable and indicate whether each relevant item on the site development
permit application checklist has been furnished: (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
      1.   A completed tree removal permit application (if necessary for
purposes of the Riverwoods tree and woodland protection ordinance).
      2.   A tree inventory and survey delineating the extent of any protected
woodland (if necessary for purposes of the Riverwoods tree and woodland
protection ordinance) prepared by a professional landscape consultant. (Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
      3.   A completed watershed development permit application (if necessary
for purposes of the Lake County watershed development ordinance).
      4.   A copy of the Lake County wetland inventory map as furnished by the
Village to the applicant on which the applicant shall indicate the subject
property.
      5.   A copy of the special flood hazard area map as furnished by the
Village to the applicant on which the applicant shall indicate the subject
property.
      6.   A copy of the zoning map of the Village as furnished by the Village
to the applicant and on which the applicant shall indicate the subject
property.
      7.   A site development plan prepared by a professional engineer on
behalf of the applicant in accordance with the detailed provisions of the
Development Handbook.
      8.   Architectural drawings.
      9.   The elements of a site preparation plan as described in section
8-3-3 of this title, unless waived by the Director of Community Services for
projects of limited scope and impact on adjoining properties, shall be included
in the site development plan drawings.
      10.   A completed site development permit application checklist.
   B.   The Director of Community Services, with the assistance of the Village
Engineer and Village Forester, shall prepare the requirements for the contents
of a site development plan and other submissions required for a site
development permit and shall cause such requirements to be assembled and made
available to the public as the site development handbook of the village. Such
requirements shall be devised for the purpose of specifying the detailed
information and data which are necessary for evaluating applications for site
development permits under the relevant ordinances and regulations of the
village. All plans, drawings, computations and specifications required for a
site development permit application shall be prepared by, or under the
supervision of, and signed and sealed by a professional architect, engineer or
landscape consultant, as appropriate. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-3: ISSUANCE OF SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   The review and recommendation for approval of site development permit
applications and issuance of site development permits shall be the duty of the
director of community services with the concurrence of the village engineer and
village forester under the direction of the staff review committee and then
only after the applicant has demonstrated proof of knowledge of regulations
adopted in this title, along with proof of competency to do the work or to
cause the work to be performed under the direction, supervision and
responsibility of a professional engineer or landscape consultant, as
applicable. The staff review committee may direct that the applicant meet with
the committee to clarify any proposed work and to consider alternatives.
   B.   If the director of community services, the village engineer and village
forester find that all relevant provisions of this title have been complied
with, including any conditions that may have been established by the staff
review committee, they shall each indicate approval of the site development
permit application by signing the site development permit.
   C.   When the director of community services determines that:
      1.   The work to be performed under the site preparation permit, if one
is required, has been properly completed (for which work he shall schedule
inspections of the site by the village engineer and village forester) and
street restoration security properly posted; and
      2.   The completion security required under section
8-5-9, "Completion Security", of this chapter has been provided,
then he shall be authorized to release the site development permit to the
applicant. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-4: INSPECTIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Subject to all applicable provisions and protections contained in and
afforded by the United States and Illinois constitutions, and other applicable
laws or regulations, when any site development work is being performed, the
director of community services, village engineer or village forester shall each
have the power to make or cause to be made entry onto any lot or parcel in the
village at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections where site
development work is in process. The director of community services, village
engineer or village forester shall each have the power to order all site
development work to be stopped on any parcel when such work is being done in
violation of any provision of this title or other village ordinances, provided
that if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop
order within twenty four (24) hours. Such written stop order shall be served
personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested. All work thus
stopped shall not be resumed except if the conditions are remedied or violation
eliminated and written permission to resume work from the director of community
services is granted.
   B.   The failure to comply with or the unauthorized removal or defacing of a
stop order or continuing to work in violation of a stop order issued pursuant
to this section shall constitute an offense. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-5: SCHEDULED INSPECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
   A.   In order to obtain the inspections required by this section, in
accordance with the following schedule, the permittee shall notify the village
at least two (2) full working days before said inspection is to be made:
      1.   Site Preparation: When all work under the required site preparation
permit has been completed.
      2.   Rough Grading: When all rough grading has been completed.
      3.   Final Inspection: When all work, including installation of all
drainage, other structures and required planting, has been completed, ground
cover has been established and an as built survey has been prepared for
projects of more than limited scope (as required by the village engineer) to
show site development work as finally installed.
   B.   If upon inspection of any site development work, it is found that the
work authorized by the site development permit has been completed in accordance
with the requirements of the permit and this chapter, the director of community
services shall obtain the recommendation of the village engineer or village
forester, as applicable, for the reduction or return of any bonds or other
security previously posted by the permittee with the village, and the director
of community services shall certify that such work has, to the best of his
knowledge, been satisfactorily performed, subject to any continuing maintenance
and repair obligations. Such certificate of completion shall be placed in the
property file for the parcel. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-6: NO LIABILITY FOR INSPECTIONS:
Failure of any village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or scarring
conditions which may adversely affect the economic value of the site or other
property in the vicinity, or to recommend denial of a site development permit,
shall not relieve the permittee of responsibility for the condition or damages
resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the village, its officers or
agents being responsible for the conditions or damages resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-7: PERMIT FEES:
Permit and inspection fees shall be as set forth in the fee schedule to be
adopted from time to time by the board of trustees pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this code. Before any work is started, the constructor or permittee
shall pay to the village clerk the permit and inspection fees for the work
covered by the site development permit as specified in the fee schedule. (Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-8: ESCROW FEES:
To defray the fees and expenses of the village's independent consultants
incurred for the review of an applicant's site development permit application,
the director of community services shall require the applicant to make a cash
deposit with the village clerk to be held and applied for such purpose only.
The amount of escrow shall be based as set forth in the village's fee schedule.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-9: COMPLETION SECURITY:
   A.   Required: Before issuance of a permit, the applicant shall be required
to post an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or refundable cash
deposit with the village in a form satisfactory to the village, such completion
security to be to the benefit of the village. Such completion security shall be
a minimum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or an amount deemed
by the village in cooperation with its consulting agents and officers to be
sufficient to cover cost of improvements shown on the site development plan
including the landscape installation and its maintenance for such period of
time as may be specified by the village, engineering, inspection fees, and all
incidental expenses. The term of the completion security shall commence on the
date the application is granted and remain in full force and effect until
completion of the work to the satisfaction of the village. In the event the
village shall have to complete the work specified in the application, the
completion security may be drawn upon and applied for the payment of all
necessary costs and expenses incurred until completion of the work to the
satisfaction of the village. Where the security has been in the form of a cash
deposit, said deposit or any unused portion thereof shall be refunded to the
permittee upon certification of satisfactory completion by the village. In the
event that all work subject to such completion security has not been completed,
the village may utilize any of the completion security for the purpose of
completing work required regardless of the purpose for which the completion
security was originally provided.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The village shall require that the applicant
furnish evidence satisfactory to the village that he carries public liability
and property damage insurance in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00), naming and holding harmless the village, its elective and
appointive boards, commissions, officers, agents and employees as additional
insureds to cover claims which may arise out of performance of the work by the
applicant. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-10: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Every site development permit shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days, or is not completed within one year from date of
issue unless the time shall be specified on the permit, except that the
director of community services may, if the permit holder presents satisfactory
evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being started or
completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of
time if written application is made before the expiration date of the permit.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority: In the event any person holding a site development permit
violates the terms of the permit or conducts or permits to be conducted on said
site development any act which adversely affects the health, welfare or safety
of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the property of said
permittee or if any permittee conducts or permits to be conducted on said site
development any act which is detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to
property or improvements in the neighborhood, the building official shall
temporarily suspend the site development permit.
   B.   Procedure For Permanently Revoking Permit: No site development permit
shall be permanently revoked or suspended until a hearing is held by the
village board of trustees. Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon
the permittee, either personally or by certified mail, and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for the revocation or
suspension in clear and concise language.
      2.   The time when, and the place where such hearing is to be held. Such
notice shall be served by certified mail or personal service on the permittee
at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. At any such
hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to be heard, and he may
call witnesses and present evidence on his behalf. Upon conclusion of such
hearing the board of trustees shall determine whether or not the permit shall
be permanently suspended or revoked.
      3.   The board of trustees shall hold the hearing to consider
recommendations for revocation or suspension of permits that have been
temporarily suspended at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the board of
trustees at which all conditions of subsection B2 of this section can be
fulfilled. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-12: EXCEPTIONS:
The village board may authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and
regulations set forth in this chapter. Application for any exception shall be
made by stating fully the grounds of the application and shall be filed with
the site development permit application. In order for the land referred to in
the application to come within the provisions of this section, it shall be
necessary that the village board of trustees find all of the following facts
with respect thereto:
   A.   The land is of such shape or size or is affected by such physical
conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record that it is
impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
regulations of this chapter.
   B.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject property.
After public hearing thereon, the village board, by resolution, may approve the
site development permit application with the exceptions and conditions it deems
necessary or it may disapprove such site development permit application and
exception application or it may take such other action as is appropriate. (Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-13: APPEALS:
The applicant, as well as any person who has received notice of the filing of
the application for a site development permit, may appeal the decision of the
village including any approval resulting from lack of action by the village to
the zoning board of appeals. Upon receipt of an appeal, the zoning board of
appeals shall schedule and hold a public hearing, after giving fifteen (15)
days' notice thereof. The zoning board of appeals shall render a decision
within thirty (30) days of the hearing. Factors to be considered on review
shall include, but not be limited to, possible saturation of fill and
unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic; runoff surface waters
that produce erosion, and silting of drainageways; nature and type of soil or
rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may create earth movement and
produce slopes that cannot be landscaped, and excessive and unnecessary
scarring of the natural landscape through grading or removal of vegetation.
(Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-5-14: NUISANCES NOT EXCUSED:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any
persons to maintain a private or public nuisance upon their property and
compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be a defense in any
action to abate such nuisance. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 6
PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-6-1: Violation
8-6-2: Injunctive Relief
8-6-1: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any provisions of this title,
including any of the published codes herein adopted, or constructs, alters,
repairs, demolishes or moves a building, structure or part thereof or performs
or causes to be performed any site development work without the appropriate
building permit or site development permit, as the case may be, or in violation
of any such permits issued pursuant to this title shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this title is committed, continued or
permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. The owner of a structure or premises or parcel where anything in
violation of this title shall be placed or exist and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, person, firm or corporation that may have assisted in the
commission of such violation shall each be guilty of a separate offense and
upon conviction thereof shall be penalized as above provided. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
This section does not apply to licensed plumbers or registered plumbing
contractors inasmuch as violations of the Illinois plumbing code will be
prosecuted by the state of Illinois as authorized by law. (Ord. 15-11-18, 11-
17-2015)
8-6-2: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
The imposition of penalties herein prescribed shall in no way preclude the
village from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent any
unlawful construction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use,
grading, excavation, filling or site development work or to restrain, correct
or abate a violation or to prevent the occupancy or illegal use of any
structure or premises. (Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 7
ADOPTION OF CODES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Adoption Of Published Codes
8-7-2: Amendments To 2024 International Building Code
8-7-3: Amendments to 2024 International Existing Building Code
8-7-4: Amendments To 2024 International Residential Code
8-7-5: Amendments To 2024 International Mechanical Code
8-7-6: Amendments To 2024 International Fuel Gas Code
8-7-7: Amendments To 2023 National Electric Code
8-7-8: Amendments To 2021 International Energy Conservation Code
8-7-9: Amendments To 2024 International Property Maintenance Code
8-7-10: Amendments To 2024 International Fire Code
8-7-11: Fire Protection And Life Safety Codes Of Local Fire Protection
Districts
8-7-1: ADOPTION OF PUBLISHED CODES:
The village adopts by reference the published codes identified below, and the
same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, subject to the deletions, modifications and amendments set out in this
chapter:
   A.   International Building Code, 2024 edition.
   B.   International Existing Building Code, 2024 edition.
   C.   International Residential Code, 2024 edition.
   D.   International Mechanical Code, 2024 edition.
   E.   International Fuel Gas Code, 2024 edition.
   F.   National Fire Protection Association NFPA 70, National Electrical Code,
2023 edition.
   G.   International Energy Conservation Code, 2021 edition, as amended by the
State of Illinois.
   H.   International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition.
   I.   International Fire Code, 2024 edition.
   J.   Illinois Accessibility Code, 2018 edition.
   K.   Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 edition. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd.
Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Building Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   The following sections of the 2024 International Building Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the "Village of Riverwoods Schedule" or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control.
   Specific Code Amendments
   The following sections of the 2024 International Building Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete the wording "The provision of the
International Plumbing Code" and insert the following language: "The provisions
of the Illinois State Plumbing Code".
   Section 102.2 Other laws. Add "Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
nullify any provisions of the zoning law or any other statute of the Village
pertaining to the location, use, or type of construction of buildings, except
as may be specifically required by the provisions of this Code".
   Section 102.4.3 Insert "Where a conflict exists between the provisions of
the Code, the provisions of the Fire District requirements or the Referenced
Standards, the stricter requirement shall apply".
   Section 102.7 Other Regulations. Add new Section "When the provisions herein
specified for health, safety, and welfare are more restrictive than other
regulations, this Code shall control".
   Section 103.1 Creation of Enforcement Agency. Delete this section and
replace with "The Director of Community Services shall be known as the building
official".
   Section 103.3 Deputies. Add the following at the end of this section "Any
reference to the Fire Official shall be to the Lincolnshire-Riverwoods Fire
Protection District or Deerfield- Bannockburn Fire Protection District.
   Section 103.4 Effective date of this Code: "The effective date of this Code
shall be February 1, 2025".
   Subsection 105.1.1. Delete.
   Subsection 105.1.2. Delete.
   Section 105.5 Expiration. Delete and replace with "Permits for new
construction of primary buildings are valid for 18 months. All other permits
are valid for 12 months. Permits shall be renewed only one time, valid for 6
months"
   Section 109.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. Insert "The permit fees required by
this Code shall be paid to the Village Clerk or the Clerk's duly authorized
agent for which the permit card shall be issued. No permit shall be valid until
such fees are paid. See the Village Fee Schedule".
   Section 109.7. Professional Consultant Services. Insert new "Plans and
supporting documents shall not be reviewed by Village Consultants until the
appropriate fees have been paid as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule".
   Insert new Subsection 109.7.1 Liability for Property Damage. The Village
shall deduct from the security deposit the cost to correct any damage to
private or public properties which is directly related to the construction for
which the permit has been issued.
   Section 111.3 Temporary Occupancy. Insert at the end "Temporary certificates
of occupancy are valid for 120 days. A security deposit is required as set
forth in the Village Fee Schedule". Building permits shall not expire during
temporary occupancies.
   Section 113.1 General. Delete and replace with “Application For Appeal: "Any
person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the building official to
the zoning board of appeals. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted there
under have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not
fully apply, or an equivalent form of construction is to be used".
   Section 113.2 Limitations on Authority. Delete and replace with
“Disqualification Of Member: A member shall not hear an appeal in which that
member has any personal, professional or financial interest".
   Section 113.3 Qualifications. Delete and replace with “Compensation Of
Members: Compensation of members shall be determined by law".
   Section 113.4 Delete and replace with “Notice Of Meeting: An appeal must be
filed with the zoning board of appeals within 30 days after the date of the
building official's decision thereon".
   Section 113.5 Insert “Open Hearing: All hearings before the board of appeals
shall be open to the public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the
building official and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an
opportunity to be heard".
   Section 113.6 Insert “Procedure: The zoning board of appeals shall adopt and
make available to the public through the secretary, procedures under which a
hearing will be conducted. The procedures shall not require compliance with
strict rules of evidence but shall mandate that only relevant information is
received”.
   Section 113.7 Insert “Administration: All decisions of the zoning board
hereunder shall be reduced to writing and mailed to the appealing party and the
building official. The building official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the zoning board of appeals".
   Section 114.4 Violation penalties. Delete "penalties as prescribed by law"
and insert the words "penalties as set forth within the Village Code”.
   Section 116.1.1 Insert “Unsafe Structures and Equipment. Boarding up a
vacant or unsafe structure is considered a temporary measure until a decision
is made as to what remedy the owner wants to pursue as provided in this
section, but in no case can a building be boarded up for more than six (6)
months”.
   Section 1103.1 Where required. Insert new "The State of Illinois
Accessibility Code shall control the design and construction of buildings and
facilities for accessibility and use by physically disabled persons. When there
is a conflict between the Illinois Accessibility Code and the accessibility
requirements in the International Building Code, the stricter shall apply".
   Section 1512.6 Insert “Roof covering materials. In all occupancies, no roof
materials shall be constructed over or enclosed within a new roof or new
structure”.
   Section 1809.9.3 Insert “Rubble stone foundation walls. New rubble stone
foundation walls are not permitted".
   Section 1809.12 Timber footings. Delete and replace with “New wood
foundation walls are not permitted”.
   Section 1807.1.6.2 Concrete foundation walls. Insert new "8. All foundation
walls shall be a minimum of six (6) inches higher than the adjacent finished
grade level".
   Chapter 29. Delete in its entirety and insert "See the Illinois State
Plumbing Code".
   Appendix G. (Flood-resistant construction) to the International Building
Code is adopted. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   The following sections of the 2024 International Existing Building Code are
hereby added, amended, revised, and changed as followed:
   General Amendments
   The following sections of the 2024 International Existing Building Code are
hereby added, amended, revised, and changed as followed:
   Whenever the phrase “[Name of jurisdiction]” or the word “jurisdiction”
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase “Code Official” or “Department of Building Inspection”
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agents(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the “Village of Riverwoods Schedule” or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then- current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control.
   Specific Code Amendments
   Section 101.1 Insert “The Village of Riverwoods”.
   Section 103.1 Replace with: The Director of Community Services shall serve
as the code official.
   Section 105.2, under “Building”, delete exemption from permits for sidewalks
and driveways.
   Section 112 Means of Appeal. Delete the text of the Section in its entirety
including Sections 112.1 - 112.4, and replace with the following language:
“Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code”.
   Appendix C (Guidelines for the Wind Retrofit of Existing Buildings) to the
International Existing Building Code is adopted. (Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-4: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Residential Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the "Village of Riverwoods Schedule" or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control.
   All new residential dwellings shall include passive radon resistant
construction.
   Section R102.1 General. Add new "In addition, when other Codes, ordinances,
or regulations of the Village impose more rigid requirements (as determined by
the Code Official), such more rigid requirements shall apply, notwithstanding
any conflict with provisions of this Code".
   Section R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. Insert New "See the Village of
Riverwoods Fee Schedule".
   Section 112 Means of Appeal. Delete the text of the Section in its entirety,
including Sections 112.1 - 112.4, and replace with the following language:
“Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code”.
   Section R133.4 Violation penalties. Delete “penalties as prescribed by law”
and insert the words “penalties as set forth within the Village Code.”
   Table R301.2(1) Insert:
Ground Snow Load          25 psf
Wind Speed (mph)          3 second 107 mph
Topographic Effects       No
Seismic Design Category   A
Special wind region       No
Wind-borne debris zone    No
Seismic Design Category   A
Weathering                Severe
Frost line depth          42 inches
Termite                   Moderate
Winter Design Temperature -4 degrees
Ice Shield Underlayment   Yes
Flood Hazard              See Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance
Air Freezing Index        2000
Mean Annual Temperature   50 degrees
 
   Section R309.2 One- and Two-family Dwellings Automatic Sprinkler Systems.
Delete the text of the section, and replace with the following:
   Notwithstanding any contrary provisions in the International Residential
Code, 2024 Edition, an automatic fire suppression system meeting the standards
of National Fire Protection Association, NFPA 13D, 2022 edition, shall be
required in the following instances:
   1.   For new single-family dwellings, expect detached garages and
agricultural buildings: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required
throughout all areas. A single-family dwelling shall be considered "new" when:
a) a single-family dwelling is built where no dwelling stands or b) more than
75% of an existing single-family dwelling is a reconstruction work area due to
extensive alterations.
   2.   For existing single-family dwellings: An automatic fire sprinkler
system shall be required throughout the entire fire area that is being
renovated if the new fire area resulting from the renovation equals: a) seventy
five percent (75%) or more of the fire area of original single-family dwelling
or b) the new fire area of the structure is increased by 2500 square feet, or
more, or sprinklerable area (per NFPA 13D).
   In each case, the automatic fire suppression system shall meet the standards
of NFPA 13D, 2022 edition, subject to the following clarifications:
      a.   An "approved automatic sprinkler system" means a system designed,
installed, tested and maintained in accordance with the National Fire
Protection Association standards adopted in this subsection. All material and
equipment comprising an approved sprinkler system shall be of the type and
design which has been tested, approved or listed by a nationally recognized
testing laboratory.
      b.   A "single-family dwelling" means a single-family dwelling as such
term is defined in title 9 of this code. The area calculations shall be
accumulative for all alterations made within the preceding period of forty-
eight (48) months. "Fire area" means the floor area enclosed and bounded by
fire walls, fire barriers, or exterior walls of a building to restrict the
spread of fire.
      c.   Where necessary to protect the automatic sprinkler system from
freezing, the Building Official may allow alteration of the standard without
diminishing the required protection.
      d.   Attached garages shall be provided with protection from the
connecting portions of the structure in a practical manner, protected from
freezing, as approved by the Building Official.
      e.   A suitable interior horn/strobe unit shall be provided on each level
so that, upon activation of a suppression system, an evacuation alarm shall
sound. A weatherproof horn/strobe unit shall be provided on the exterior of the
structure in an approved location. The exterior strobe shall be blue in color
or a color approved by the Fire Protection District. These devices shall
initiate upon activation of the suppression system.
      f.   All required fire sprinkler valves should be monitored so that upon
closure of the fire protection water supply valve an alarm (supervisory or
trouble) shall be directly connected to the Fire District Dispatch Center.
      g.   A residential Knox box with building keys or a current key holder
list shall be provided to the fire protection district providing service to the
residence. The key holder list shall be updated whenever there is any change to
the list.
      h.   Prior to the commencement of construction on any new residential
occupancy in the Village, the owner or the owner's agent must submit for
approval three (3) sets of hydraulically designed plans, setting forth all
essential details of the sprinkler system to the Building Department. The
Village will require approval of the plans by an official or fire prevention
bureau of a fire protection district serving the Village. The Building
Department Official shall deny approval of the plans if it is determined that
the plans fail to meet the standards of NFPA 13D, 2022 edition.
      i.   A determination of the Building Department Official to deny approval
as provided above may be appealed to the Village Board by filing a written
appeal within seven (7) days of the denial of approval. This appeal shall set
forth reasons why the approval shall be granted. The Village Board may affirm
the decision of the Building Department Official or reverse it in whole or in
part, with such modifications as the Village Board deems appropriate and
necessary to protect public safety and welfare. This shall be determined at a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board.
      j.   Plans for an approved automatic sprinkler system setting forth all
the essential details of the sprinkler system shall be subject to a plan review
fee as set forth in the Village fee schedule, which will include the fees
separately charged by fire protection districts serving the Village for their
review and inspection services performed under agreement with the Village.
      k.   The Building Department shall provide an initial inspection of the
automatic sprinkler system. The Village will require inspection of the system
by an official or fire prevention bureau of a fire protection district serving
the Village. This inspection shall not guarantee proper installation of such
system but will ensure that the system exists and was installed according to
the approved plans. This inspection shall also afford the property owner a
safety inspection to provide proactive planning for fire prevention
   Section R309.3 Insert “Freeze Protection. All fire sprinkler piping located
in floor or ceiling joists, exterior cold wall cavities, in unconditioned cold
concealed attic spaces shall be protected from freezing. All sprinkler piping
installed in joist spaces shall be protected with solid draft stop material.
The draft stop material shall be installed within the joist space cavity and
within twenty-four (24) inches of exterior rim board”. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-
2019; amd. Ord. 21-12- 31, 12-7-2021; Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-5: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Mechanical Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the "Village of Riverwoods Schedule" or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control.
Specific Code Amendments
   Section 101.1 Insert “The Village of Riverwoods”.
   Section 108.2 Schedule of permit fees. Insert the following at the end of
the Subsection: “See Village of Riverwoods Fee Schedule”.
   Section 114.4 Violation Penalties. Delete all text after and including
“shall be guilty of” and insert the following at the end of the sentence “shall
be subject to penalties as set forth within the Village Code.
   Section 112 Means of Appeal. Delete the text of the Section in its entirety,
including Sections 112.1 - 112.4, and replace with the following language:
Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code.
   Section 113 Board of Appeals. Delete this Section in its entirety.
   Chapter 8 Referenced Standards:
   Delete International Plumbing Code and insert the Illinois State Plumbing
Code - 2014. This change affects all references to the International Plumbing
Code in the entire code.
   NFPA See the changes indicated in the National Electric Code amendments.
   Appendices: Adopt Appendix A. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19,
12-17-2024)
8-7-6: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Fuel Gas Code are hereby
added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the "Village of Riverwoods Fee Schedule" or
any other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control.
   Specific Code Amendments
   Section 101.1 Insert The Village of Riverwoods.
   Section 108.2 Schedule of permit fees. Delete the text and replace with the
following: “See the of Village of Riverwoods Fee Schedule”.
   Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Delete all text after and including
“shall be guilty of” and insert the following at the end of the sentence “shall
be subject to penalties as set forth within the Village Code”.
   Section 112 Means of Appeal. Delete the text of the Section in its entirety,
including Sections 112.1 - 112.4, and replace with the following language:
“Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code.”
   Chapter 8 Referenced Standards:
   Delete International Plumbing Code and insert the Illinois Plumbing Code -
2014. This change affects all references to the International Plumbing Code in
the entire code.
   NFPA See the changes indicated in the National Electric Code amendments.
   Appendices: Adopt Appendices A, B, and C. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd.
Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-7: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2023 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The following sections of the 2023 National Electric Code are hereby added,
amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   110.12 (C) Mechanical Execution of Work. Add a new Subsection (C) as
follows:
   (C)   Connection to Existing Services, Feeders, Circuits and Loads. Any
person and/or company that installs, alters, repairs or modifies electrical
circuits, devices, fixtures, appliances, equipment and related electrical
components, shall be responsible for assuring that the existing service,
feeders, circuits and the like, are capable of supporting the new loads and
that any work performed will not undermine, compromise or make unsafe any
portion the electrical system.
      1)   The connection of any new or modified circuits to existing services,
feeders, circuits and/or loads shall not cause those existing conditions to
become compromised or overloaded. Correction, alteration, modification or other
measures shall be performed to maintain the components of the existing
electrical system in a reasonable condition. Depending on the amount of work
involved, a separate permit may be necessary. It shall be the installers'
responsibility to ensure that existing conditions are capable of handling the
electrical installation approved by the permit, including electrically,
mechanically and structurally.
      2)   During the course of the installers' work, existing electrical
conditions found to be significantly deficient shall be corrected to a
reasonable condition as determined by the Riverwoods Electrical Inspector.
      a)   For the purposes of this section, the term significantly deficient
shall mean; As determined by the Riverwoods Electrical Inspector, a condition
observed to the wiring methods, materials and/or overall installation of any
part of an existing electrical installation that appears to be an increased
fire, shock, overload and/or other safety hazard."
   110.26 (D)(1) Illumination. Add a new Paragraph (1) as follows:
   (1)   In other than dwelling units, at least one self-contained battery-
operated emergency light, connected to the local lighting circuit, ahead of any
switching, shall be required in all electrical closets, switchgear rooms, fire
sprinkler rooms and generator rooms.
   210.11(C)(5) Radon Receptacle & Circuit. Add new Paragraph (5) as follows:
   (5)   1.   When a dwelling unit is equipped with a passive radon pipe as
part of new construction or remodeling, a 125 volt 15 or 20 amp circuit and
single receptacle shall be provided in the attic within two feet of vertical
section the PVC radon pipe that is penetrating the roof. The receptacle cover
shall be marked "For Radon System" and shall indicate what circuit breaker
number is for this receptacle. The receptacle shall be at least 12 inches
higher than the insulation level (if applicable) near the radon pipe and shall
not be installed at a height requiring a ladder within the attic. The
receptacle shall be a single receptacle. The circuit shall be a dedicated
circuit and shall not be part of a multi-wire branch circuit (network) and
shall not be AFCI or GFCI protected. The receptacle shall not be required to be
TR type.
   2.   On existing dwellings when a radon mitigation system is installed, an
electrical permit shall be obtained prior to any work and applicable
inspections are required. All work shall be installed in accordance to the
National Electrical Code and amendments in effect. Note, the permit and
inspections are not for the radon system or its installation and is only for
the electrical work. This provision is not intended to regulate radon
mitigation system installations or supersede any state, federal or other
governmental Radon licensing and/or installations requirements by such agencies
having jurisdiction.
   210.52(G)(1) Add New Section: Conduit For EV Charging Equipment
   In new residential construction, a minimum of one ¾" (nominal trade size)
metallic rigid, IMC or EMT conduit shall be installed from the electrical panel
to a 4-11/16" deep electrical junction box located in the garage for future
electrical vehicle charging equipment. A blank cover shall be installed on the
4-11/16" junction box. The electrical panel from which conduit originates shall
have provisions for adding the future 2 pole breaker and the availability to
add at least a 60 amp load to the electrical panel.
   210.70(A)(2)(1) Additional Locations. In subparagraph 210.70(A)(2)(1) add
the following phrase at the end of the sentence:
   "and closets over 36 inches deep or 24 square feet in area."
   230.11   Additional Service Standards. Insert a new Section 230.11 as
follows:
   (A)   Service Entrance Conductors. Overhead service entrance conductors
shall be installed in rigid metal conduit or intermediate metal conduit with a
panelboard containing not less than twenty (20) circuits.
      1)   Mini breakers shall not be permitted in new construction.
      2)   Up to two mini breakers shall be permitted for remodeling work
provided the existing Panel(s) does not already contain any mini breakers.
   (B)   Residential Sub-panels. Sub-panels shall be permitted with no load
calculation and without special permission, provided the sub panel is protected
by a circuit breaker and/or fuse no larger than 60 amps located in the
distribution panel from which the sub-panel is to be fed.
   (C)   Residential Occupancies. Those conductors which supply all the current
consumed by an individual apartment or dwelling unit shall have a rating not
less than the load required, but in no event less than the following:
      1)   Dwelling units of any size shall have a 100 ampere minimum rating;
except that dwelling units in excess of 2,000 square feet shall have a 200
ampere minimum rating and dwelling units over 4,000 square feet shall have a
400 ampere minimum rating.
      a)   For the purposes of this section, the measurement of square footage
shall be measured from outside wall to outside wall and shall include basements
(finished or unfinished), crawl spaces, and garages.
      2)   Services up to 200 amperes shall have one disconnecting means. Two
separate disconnecting means for a 400 ampere service will be permitted to
allow a 400 amp residential service with two, 200 amp main disconnects with
each connecting to its own 200 amp panel. Three separate disconnecting means
for a 600 ampere service will be permitted to allow a 600 amp residential
service with three, 200 amp main disconnects with each connecting to its own
200 amp panel.
   (D)   Shunt Trip. 230.70(A)(3) shall apply.
   (E)   Reduced Neutrals. Reduced neutrals are permitted only by special
permission of the Riverwoods Electrical Inspector.
   (F)   Copper Conductors. Copper conductors shall be used on the load side of
all services.
   230.12   Underground Service Conductors Required. Add a new Section 230.12,
entitled "Underground Service Conductors Required" to read as follows.
   All new residential construction shall have underground service conductors.
   Exception: The Director of Community Services may waive this requirement in
the event this would necessitate burying a service conductor beneath a public
or private street.
   230.43   Wiring Methods for 1000 Volts, Nominal or Less. Delete the
following as authorized methods:
   (1)   Open wiring on insulators
   (2)   Type IGS cable
   (5)   Electrical Metallic Tubing
   (6)   Electrical non-metallic tubing (ENT)
   (7)   Service entrance cables
   (12)   Cablebus
   (13)   Type MC cable
   (14)   Mineral-insulated, metal-sheathed cable
   (15)   Flexible metal conduit not over 6 ft. (1.83m) long between raceways,
or between raceway and service equipment, with equipment bonding jumper routed
with the flexible metal conduit or the liquid tight flexible metal conduit
according to the provisions of Section 250-102(a),(b)
   (16)   Liquid tight flexible nonmetallic conduit 230.43(11) Wiring Methods
for 1000 Volts, Nominal or Less. Delete Paragraph 230.43(11) concerning rigid
PVC conduit and replace it with the following:
   (A)   Rigid nonmetallic (PVC) electrical conduit schedule 40 or 80 shall be
permitted to be used underground only.
   (B)   Elbows and nipples extending above grade shall be RMC, IMC, aluminum
rigid or PVC where permitted by 352.10 and 352.10 as amended.
   (C)   Elbows or nipples extending into a ground level Commonwealth Edison or
privately-owned transformer, PVC with a PVC connector and bushing shall be
permitted.
   (D)   Rigid nonmetallic (PVC) electrical conduit schedule 80 shall be
permitted to be used above or below ground for temporary construction power,
temporary services, temporary extensions to devices such as receptacles and
lights during construction activities but shall be removed once construction
activities have ended and the permanent wiring methods have been installed and
commissioned.
   230.44 Cable Trays. Delete entire Section.
   230.70(A)(1) Readily Accessible Location. Add an exception to Paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
   (A)   Exception: Services for one and two-family dwellings (new and service
upgrades and/or revisions) shall have the service disconnect(s) located outside
(exterior of the building) in the meter enclosure and/or an approved disconnect
located immediately adjacent to the meter.
   230.70(A)(3) Remote Control - Shunt Trip. Add new subparagraph (A) as
follows:
   (A)   In other than one and two family dwellings, the need for installation
of and location of a Knox-Box shunt trip switch that shall deactivate the main
disconnects of all electrical services shall be determined by the Lincolnshire
Riverwoods Fire Protection District when any of the following conditions apply:
      1.   When an additional electrical service is added to a building and/or
an existing electrical service is modified and the service disconnects are not
grouped together.
      2.   New construction and/or renovation where more than one service
supplies the same occupant and/or address and the service disconnects are not
grouped together.
      3.   New construction and/or renovation when the main disconnects are not
grouped together and/or there are more than 6 disconnects.
      4.   New construction and/or renovation where there is a complicated or
unusual building and/or occupant space and/or electrical room layout as
determined by the Riverwoods Fire Marshal.
   Exception: Electrical services supplying fire pump systems.
   250.50 Grounding Electrode System. Add new language at the end of the
existing Section 250.50 to read as follows:
   All grounding electrode conductors shall be:
   (1)   Enclosed in metal raceway or metal conduit.
   Exception 1: PVC conduit shall be permitted when installed in accordance
with Article 352, as modified by local amendments.
   Exception 2: Concealed grounding electrode conductors from an underground
meter enclosure to a ground rod and jumper between ground rods shall not be
required to be in conduit provided the conductor is buried below grade by at
least 12".
   (2)   A proper sized bonding jumper shall also be installed across the water
meter.
   250.52(5) Rod and Pipe Electrodes. Delete (a) and (b) and replace with:
   (a)   All electrodes shall be copper or copper clad.
   (b)   All services shall have a minimum eight (8) foot by 5/8-inch
nonferrous or copper clad ground rod installed at the meter fitting and be
connected to utility company's neutral bus as well as bonded to the meter
enclosure.
   250.68(C) Metallic Water Pipe and Structural Metal. Delete Paragraph 2 in
its entirety.
   250.68(D) Grounding Electrode Conductors; Steel Grounding. Add a new
Subsection D to read as follows:
   (D)   Grounding electrode conductors that utilize building steel as the
grounding electrode shall;
      1.   Have an irreversible connection between:
      a.   conductor and attachment lug
      b.   lug to building steel
      c.   conductor to building steel if directly attached.
      2.   Irreversible connections can include:
      a.   exothermic welding
      b.   high-press compression
      c.   listed bolt on connections with break off / shear pin features
      d.   other listed components
   310.15(B)(7) 120/240 Volt, Three (3) Wire, Single-Phase Dwelling Services
and Feeders. Delete subsection in its entirety.
   310.106(B) Conductor Material. Delete section in the entirety and replace
with:
   "Conductors in this Article shall be copper unless otherwise approved by the
Riverwoods Electrical Inspector"
   Delete column referencing Table 310.106(A) Aluminum or Copper-Clad Aluminum.
   314.27 (C)(1) Requirements for Paddle Fan Outlets & Supports. Add a new
Subsection
   (C)   (1) to read as follows:
      (1)   In dwelling units when a ceiling outlet box is supplied in the
center or near center of a ceiling footprint (where a paddle fan can be
installed) outlet boxes suitable for supporting fans as required by 314.27(c)
shall be installed in the following locations:
      a.   sleeping rooms,
      b.   family rooms,
      c.   studies,
      d.   dining rooms,
      e.   great rooms,
      f.   living rooms, foyers, and
      g.   other similar rooms.
   Exception: When an electrical and/or mechanical lift or hoisting device is
installed that is manufactured for the purpose of raising and/or lowering a
luminaire and/or paddle fan, no additional boxes shall be required other than
what is specified by the manufacturer of the lift or hoist. Any such lift or
hoist shall be listed for the purpose.
   320.10 Armored Cable - Uses Permitted. Delete entire paragraph and replace
with:
   1.   For remodeling work where fished through finished wall, floors and
ceilings. The maximum exposed run of armored cable that feeds into the finished
section shall not exceed 6 feet.
   2.   For remodeling work in dwelling units where lighting (such as recessed
cans) or junction boxes for luminaires are installed in ceilings where there is
an accessible or inaccessible attic above the ceiling and ceilings below upper
floors where there is no access.
   3.   As a whip, not exceeding 6 feet:
      a.   From junction boxes to luminaire (such as lay-in fixtures and
recessed cans).
      b.   As a daisy chain whip, no longer than 6 feet, from luminaire to
luminaire, when the luminaire is listed for pass through wiring and when it
will be concealed above a finished ceiling.
      c.   Connection to appliances, equipment, pumps, motors and similar
apparatus.
   330.10 MC Cable - Uses Permitted. Delete entire paragraph and replace with:
   1.   For remodeling work where fished through finished wall, floors and
ceilings. The maximum exposed run of armored cable that feeds into the finished
section shall not exceed 6 feet.
   2.   For remodeling work in dwelling units where lighting (such as recessed
cans) or junction boxes for luminaires are installed in ceilings where there is
an accessible or inaccessible attic above the ceiling and ceilings below upper
floors where there is no access.
   3.   As a whip, not exceeding 6 feet:
      a.   From junction boxes to luminaire (such as lay-in fixtures and
recessed cans).
      b.   As a daisy chain whip, no longer than 6 feet, from luminaire to
luminaire, when the luminaire is listed for pass through wiring and when it
will be concealed above a finished ceiling.
      c.   Connection to appliances, equipment, pumps, motors and similar
apparatus.
   334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable. Delete entire Article 334.
   334. 10 Non-Metallic Cable - Uses Permitted. Delete entire Article and
replace with:
   "Non-Metallic Cable (NM) cable shall be permitted to be used for temporary
wiring of a construction site when installed in accordance with Article 590."
   338 Service Entrance Cable. Delete entire Article 338.
   348.10 FMC - Use Permitted. Delete entire section and replace with the
following:
   "The use of flexible metallic conduit and fittings shall be permitted as
specified in (A) through (G)."
   (A)   In lengths not exceeding six (6) feet except where fished.
   (B)   Exposed or concealed where needed for flexibility (including for
vibration) to utilization equipment, appliances and transformers.
   (C)   Fixture whips not exceeding 6 feet.
   (D)   In remodeling work where, in the opinion of the Riverwoods Electrical
Inspector, the installation of electrical metallic tubing presents a hardship.
The maximum exposed run of FMC shall not exceed three (3) feet.
   (E)   Applications when in the opinion of the Riverwoods Electrical
Inspector other methods are not practical or appropriate.
   (F)   When part of a listed assembly or equipment and attached by the
manufacturer such as a generator ATS controller. Unnecessary lengths shall be
shortened to length needed to allow for the installation unless shortening the
length violates the listing.
   (G)   Ground conductors (EGC) shall be provided in all FMC installations and
shall be sized and installed in accordance with article 250.
   352.10 RNC - Uses Permitted. PVC conduit, schedule 40 or 80, shall be
permitted for use in the following applications.
   (A)   Exterior and Underground:
      (1)   Underground or below slabs and with voltages of less than 600 volt
for:
      (2)   Service entrance conductors
      (3)   Feeders
      (4)   Branch Circuits.
      (5)   Control circuits.
      (6)   Underground installations shall be permitted under typical surface
areas including:
      (a)   Grass, gravel, asphalt, pavers, concrete.
      (b)   Walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots, yards.
      (c)   For nominal voltage systems of 120 through 480 volts, PVC shall not
be permitted above grade.
   Exceptions:
   a.   Stub-ups: Underground PVC shall be permitted to be stubbed-up above
grade where it transitions to EMT, rigid metallic steel conduit, aluminum rigid
conduit or IMC. PVC stub-ups shall not exceed 12 inches. Where necessary, PVC
stub-ups shall be protected from damage by appropriate barriers. Stub ups not
exceeding 12" shall be permitted to enter other than one & two family dwellings
to connect into enclosures, boxes, switchboards and similar.
   b.   PVC shall be permitted above and below grade for low voltage systems.
For the purpose of this article, low voltage shall mean 50 volts or less (ac or
dc) and/or up to 70 volts for audio/paging systems. Uses can include:
      1.   Swimming pool lights.
      2.   Swimming pool controls.
      3.   Landscape lighting.
      4.   Signal, coax, fiber optic, phone, computer, data, communication
wire.
      5.   HVAC controls (i.e.: thermostat wiring).
      6.   Building automation wiring.
      7.   Alarm, CCTV, security systems, access control systems.
      8.   Audio / sound systems.
      9.   Low voltage lighting systems.
      10.   Sleeves for future low voltage wiring.
   (B)   Interior:
      (1)   In dwelling and non-dwelling applications, unless prohibited
elsewhere in code, PVC conduit shall be permitted for low voltage applications
exposed and concealed. Uses can include:
      (2)   Swimming pool lights.
      (3)   Swimming pool controls.
      (4)   Landscape lighting.
      (5)   Signal, coax, fiber optic, phone, computer, data, communication
wire.
      (6)   HVAC controls (i.e.: thermostat wiring).
      (7)   Building automation wiring.
      (8)   Alarm, CCTV, security systems, access control systems.
      (9)   Audio / sound systems.
      (10)   Low voltage lighting systems such as; under cabinet lights.
      (11)   Sleeves for future low voltage wiring.
      (12)   PVC shall not be permitted in plenum ceilings.
   (C)   Temporary wiring and services.
      (1)   RNC shall be permitted for temporary wiring associated with
construction sites and special events.
      (2)   RNC shall be permitted for temporary wiring associated with
temporary services for construction sites and feeders to construction trailers.
      (3)   When used for temporary wring, RNC shall be permitted above and
below grade, interior and exterior, on or beneath finished surfaces.
   (D)   Grounding:
      (1)   In one and two unit dwellings, RNC shall be permitted as a conduit
to be used with a Grounding Electrode Conductor (GEC) or its jumpers, inside or
outside, above or below grade, concealed or on finished surfaces.
      (2)   When used underground or underslab (inside or outside) and then
extending above grade or floor, no transition is required to RMC. Uses can
include:
      a.   Between service panel and grounding electrode(s).
      b.   Between meter enclosure containing a main disconnect and grounding
electrode(s).
      c.   Between multiple grounding electrodes.
   (E)   Special Conditions. RNC shall not be installed where exposed without
special permission except as permitted in this amendment. RNC may be considered
for special circumstances and approved by written request for special
permission. Possible uses could be wet locations, exposure to chemicals or
special corrosive environments (interior and/or exterior of a structure).
   354   Nonmetallic Underground Conduit. Delete entire Article.
   355   Reinforced Thermal Resin Conduit (RTRC). RTRC shall be permitted in
accordance with amendment pertaining to PVC in Section 352.10
   358.12 EMT - Uses Not Permitted. Add the following as conditions when EMT
shall not be used:
   (7)   For enclosing service entrance conductors.
   (8)   In ground level floor slab that is in contact with the earth.
   360 Flexible Metal Tubing (FMT). Delete entire Article and replace with:
   "FMT shall be permitted to remain where already installed. FMT shall not be
reused once removed or when still attached to a light fixture and the light
fixture is relocated."
   362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing. Delete entire Article.
   366 Auxiliary Gutters. Amend Article 366 to prohibit the use of Nonmetallic
Auxiliary Gutters.
   370 Cable Bus. Delete entire Article.
   376.10 Metal Wireways - Uses Permitted. Delete entire subsection and replace
with:
   "The use of wireways shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   For exposed work;
      (2)   In concealed spaces only in accordance with Section 640.24; and
      (3)   In wet locations, where listed for the purpose."
   376.12 Wireways - Uses Not Permitted. Delete entire subsection and replace
with:
   Metal Wireways shall not be permitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   Where potentially subject to severe physical damage or corrosive
vapors;
      (2)   For service entrance conductors;
      (3)   In suspended ceiling spaces; and
      (4)   In hazardous (classified) locations.
   378 Nonmetallic Wireways. Delete entire Article.
   382 Nonmetallic Extensions. Delete entire Article.
   388 Surface Nonmetallic Raceways. Delete entire Article.
   394 Concealed Knob-and-Tube Wiring. Delete entire Article.
   396 Messenger Supported Wiring. Delete entire Article.
   398 Open Wiring on Insulators. Delete entire Article.
   410.16(D) Luminaire Requirements in Clothes Closets. Add a new subsection D,
as follows:
   "A luminaire (fixture) shall be installed in all closets over 36" deep or 24
square feet in area."
   410.44(A) Flexible fixture whips. Add a new subsection (A) as follows:
   (A)   "All flexible fixture whips for 277 volt lighting applications shall
have an equipment grounding conductor to be sized no smaller than #16 AWG.
Terminated ends shall be securely attached to fixtures and junction boxes with
an approved attachment device."
   410.117(C) Tap conductors. Delete the second sentence and replace it with
the following:
   "Such tap conductors shall be in metallic raceway of at least four (4) feet
(1.22m) but not more than six (6) feet (1.83m) in length."
   645.5(E)(1) Installation Requirements for Branch Circuit Supply Conductors
Under a Raised Floor.
   Delete the following wiring methods:
   (b)(2)   rigid nonmetallic conduit
   (b)(5)   electrical nonmetallic tubing
   (b)(7)   nonmetallic wireway
   (b)(9)   surface nonmetallic raceway
   (b)(12)   Liquid tight flexible non-metallic conduit
   (b)(13)   MI cable
   (b)(14)   MC cable
   (b)(15)   AC cable
   Modify the following wiring methods:
   (b)(10)   Flexible metal conduit permitted in lengths not exceeding 6 feet
and with a green equipment grounding conductor (EGC) sized in accordance for
the circuit per article 250.
   (b)(11)   Liquid tight flexible metal conduit permitted in lengths not
exceeding 6 feet and with a green equipment grounding conductor (EGC) sized in
accordance for the circuit per article 250.
   (b)(16)   Associated metallic boxes, enclosures, straps, fittings and
related hardware.
   680.11 Underground Wiring Location. Delete the following:
   "or type MC cable"
   Amend Section 680.23, "Underwater Luminaires" by deleting the language in
Subsection (A)(4), entitled "Voltage Limitation" in its entirety and replacing
it with the following:
   680.23(A)(4) Voltage Limitation.
   All underwater luminaires (pool lights located in the pool) shall be listed
by a recognized testing laboratory such as UL, ETL, CSA and with a rating of
not more than 24 volts between conductors. All under water luminaires shall be
connected to a transformer that is listed for use with swimming pools. The line
side of the transformer shall be connected to the load side of a Class-A GFCI
protective device.
   680.25(B) Delete entire sentence and change to:
   Aluminum and Stainless Steel Conduit. Aluminum and stainless steel conduit
shall not be permitted in the pool area where subject to corrosion.
   690.4(C)(1) Qualified Personnel. Add a new subsection (1) as follows:
   (1)   Qualifications. The installation, servicing or otherwise working on
photovoltaic systems shall be performed by qualified persons as required by
690.4(C) who shall provide documentation that any such work performed was done
under the on- site supervision of an individual qualified to work on
photovoltaic systems, as evidenced by credentials from a recognized
photovoltaic training provider.
   700.10(A)(3) Wiring, Emergency Systems. Add the following (3) in section (A)
IDENTIFICATION
   (3)   In addition to the requirements stated in 700.10(A)(1) and (2), the
following shall apply.
   In other than dwelling units where the building and/or tenant space
emergency lighting and/or exit signs are supplied by circuits from a
permanently installed backup generator, the junction box at the point of
connection to the luminaire shall be identified on the outside of the box and
cover plated by a distinctive fluorescent yellow paint or by other approved
means. Paint shall not be
   required when the junction boxes are exposed and would conflict with the
building cosmetics (in those situations other approved identification will be
required).
   Exception: If colored conduits, boxes or cover plates are part of the design
and/or specifications, other approved methods shall be used so as not to
interfere or cause confusion of boxes, plates or conduits identified by color
for other purposes.
   720.1   Circuits and Equipment Operating at Less Than 50 Volts. Add new
Subsections (A), (B) and (C) as follows:
   (A)   Low Voltage Definition: For the purposes of this amendment, "low
voltage" shall mean wiring systems that operate at 50 volts (or less) ac and/or
dc, signal and/or communication wiring, temperature control, building
automation and structured wiring. Common wiring that falls under this category
include: phone, data, internet, communications, alarm (all types), CCTV, coax,
antennae (and dish), thermostat, lighting systems and similar.
   (B)   Permit and Inspection Required: Low voltage wiring system installation
and extensions shall be required to obtain permits and be inspected. This
includes but is not limited to low voltage systems inside commercial,
industrial, shopping centers, and/or any building where children may be
expected to enter and or remain for a period of time. This also includes
buildings where the public may be expected to assemble and homes engaging in
the business of childcare services, hair salons, and other undertakings where
children may be expected to be present.
   Exception 1. One and two-family dwellings.
   Exception 2. Non-common individual dwelling units within a larger building
such as a condominium building.
   Exceptions 3. Extensions within an area that does not require low voltage
wiring to extend above ceilings or through walls if such wiring does not
terminate in open sockets or other open source of voltage that may be contacted
by the public.
   (C)   Contractor Provisions: Low voltage wiring system installation shall be
permitted to be installed by:
      1)   Licensed Electrical Contractor.
      2)   Licensed Low Voltage Electrical Contractor.
      3)   State of Illinois Licensed Alarm Contractor.
      4)   HVAC Contractor.
      5)   In house IT, maintenance or other authorized personnel by the
tenant, owner or management agency provided the tenant, owner or management
agency obtains a general contractors license.
   Exception 1. This shall not be construed as superseding any State or Federal
laws requiring specific licenses for alarm (or related) work, or other
specialty work requiring special licensing from other agencies for specific
work performed. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-8: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The following sections of the 2021 International Energy Conservation Code are
hereby added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Specific Code Amendments
   Section C101.1 Title. Insert “The Village of Riverwoods”.
   Section C109 Means of Appeals. Delete the text C109 in its entirety,
including Sections C109.1 - C109.4, and replace with the following language:
“Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code”.
   Section R101.1 Title. Insert “The Village of Riverwoods”.
   Section R109 Means of Appeals. Delete the text of Section R109 in its
entirety, including Sections R109.1 - R109.4, and replace with the following
language: “Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth
in Section 113 of the ICC Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village Code”.
   Chapter 6 Referenced Standards, for both the Commercial and Residential
portions of this code:
   Delete International Plumbing Code and insert the Illinois State Plumbing
Code - 2014. This change affects all references to the International Plumbing
Code in the entire code.
   NFPA See the changes indicated in the National Electric Code amendments.
(Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-9: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby added, amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   General Amendments
   Wherever the phrase "[name of jurisdiction]" or the word "jurisdiction"
appear, they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
   Wherever the phrase "Code Official" or "Department of Building Inspection"
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
   Whenever there is a reference to the "Village of Riverwoods Schedule" or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activities covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs payable to the Village relating to activities covered
by, and the administration of, this Code, the fees set forth in the then-
current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs
shall control. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2024)
8-7-10: AMENDMENTS TO 2024 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The following sections of the 2024 International Fire Code are hereby added,
amended, revised, and changed as follows:
General Amendments
Wherever the phrase “[name of jurisdiction]” or the word “jurisdiction” appear,
they shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods.
Wherever the phrase “Code Official” or “Department of Building Inspection”
appears, it shall refer to the Village of Riverwoods, Director of Community
Services or his designated agent(s).
Whenever there is a reference to the “Village of Riverwoods Schedule” or any
other general reference to fees or charges, it shall mean the then-current
ordinance of the Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable
to the Village relating to activites covered by, and the administration of,
this Code. To the extent that fees are set forth in this Chapter that are
different than the then-current ordinance of the
Village setting forth fees, charges, and other costs payable to the Village
relating to activities covered by, and the administration of, this Code, the
fees set forth in the then-current ordinance of the Village setting forth fees,
charges, and other costs shall control.
Specific Code Amendments
Section 101.1 Title. Insert “The Village of Riverwoods”.
Section 112 Means of Appeals. Delete the text of Section 112 in is entirety,
including Section 112.1 - 112.4, and replace with the following language:
“Appeals shall be made available and pursued in the manner set forth in Section
113 of the ICC International Building Code 2024, as amended by the Village
Code.
Section 113.4 Violation penalties. Delete all text after and including “shall
be guilty of” and insert the following at the end of the sentence “shall be
subject to penalties as set forth within the Village Code”. (Ord. 24-12-19, 12-
17-2024)
8-7-11: FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY CODES OF LOCAL FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICTS:
For properties located in Vernon Township, fire protection and life safety
codes and amendments are under the jurisdiction of the Lincolnshire Riverwoods
Fire Prevention District.
For properties located in West Deerfield Township, fire protection and life
safety codes and amendments are under the jurisdiction of the Deerfield
Bannockburn Fire Prevention District.
For all properties, the stricter provisions of the 2024 International Fire Code
or the Fire Protection and Life Safety Codes of the Fire Prevention District
having jurisdiction shall govern. (Ord. 19-09-16, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-
19, 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 8
TENNIS AND PLAYING COURTS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Compliance Required
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: Location
8-8-4: Fences, Screening
8-8-5: Backboards, Lighting, Loudspeakers And Aboveground Seating
8-8-6: Permit Required
8-8-7: Drawings, Plans And Permits
8-8-8: Condition Of Operation
8-8-9: Fees
8-8-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct, install or maintain any tennis courts or
playing courts in the village, except in compliance with all the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
CLASSIFICATION: Any tennis or playing court shall be classified as a structure.
PLAYING COURTS: Any dirt, grass, clay, wood, cement, sand, gravel, asphalt or
any hard, artificial surface upon which racquetball, handball, basketball,
squash, platform tennis, bocce ball or other games and sports are played.
TENNIS COURT: A leveled area of grass, clay or hard, artificial playing surface
that is to accommodate a regulation size tennis court as defined by the USLTA,
with posts, net and necessary surrounding playing area, and, enclosed by a
fence on all sides. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-3: LOCATION:
Tennis and/or playing courts shall meet all building setback requirements of
the zoning district in which they are built. No portion of a tennis and/or
playing court shall be located between the front line of the residence on the
same lot as the court and any street abutting said lot. For the purpose of this
section, the front line of any residence shall be drawn parallel to any road
abutting the lot and intersecting the point of the residence located nearest to
the road. A tennis and/or playing court shall not be built over a functioning
septic system or as part of a driveway. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-4: FENCES, SCREENING:
Any fence that encloses a tennis court shall be no higher than ten feet (10'),
and shall be constructed of metal or plastic materials. All fences for tennis
courts and playing courts constructed without fences shall be screened from
neighbors' views to provide visual relief and maintain privacy by the planting
of effective all season screening consisting of evergreen, shrubbery, trees or
otherwise specified in accordance with a landscape plan to be submitted to and
approved by the village prior to issuance of permits. All covenants and
restrictions of specific subdivisions and/or road associations shall be
respected. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-5: BACKBOARDS, LIGHTING, LOUDSPEAKERS AND ABOVEGROUND SEATING:
Backboards, lighting for playing purposes, loudspeakers and permanent
aboveground (tiered) seating are prohibited. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd.
Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to proceed with construction, installation, enlargement or
alteration of any private residential tennis court and appurtenances and
playing courts within the village unless all necessary permits shall have first
been obtained from the building officer.
A basketball hoop affixed to a garage or pole located in a driveway shall be
allowed without permit. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-7: DRAWINGS, PLANS AND PERMITS:
   A.   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation, enlargement
or alteration of any tennis and/or playing court (appurtenances) and
landscaping shall first be presented to the building officer in triplicate, for
review and approval.
   B.   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-
eighth inch to the foot (1/8" = 1'). All distances and dimensions shall be
accurate and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot line and
including information pertaining to the court, walk and fence construction,
drainage system and all appurtenances pertaining to the courts. Detail plans
shall be provided in accordance with the building code.
   C.   All private residential tennis and/or playing courts, appurtenances and
drainage systems shall be constructed in conformity with the approved plans.
   D.   All trees and vegetation destroyed by the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any residential tennis and/or playing court shall
be replaced with similar trees and/or vegetation in accordance with the
approved landscape plan.
   E.   Site development plans are required in accordance with chapter 5 of
this title. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-8: CONDITION OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful to operate a tennis and/or playing court for profit and/or
to charge for use. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-8-9: FEES:
The permit fees for the construction of tennis and/or playing courts shall be
ten dollars ($10.00) per one hundred (100) square feet. (Ord. 082-8-12, 8-16-
1982; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 9
FENCES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Applicability
8-9-3: Definitions
8-9-4: Permit Required
8-9-5: Height Limits And Setbacks
8-9-6: Construction Methods, Materials And Colors
8-9-7: Exempt Fences
8-9-8: Unsafe Fences
8-9-9: Legal Nonconforming Fences
8-9-10: Penalty
8-9-1: PURPOSE:
In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its authority to
regulate fences for the following purposes:
   A.   To improve public safety and the welfare of persons using streets
through the maintenance of adequate visibility into and from private property
and within street rights of way, particularly as related to the front yard
spaces between the streets and any buildings on a lot;
   B.   To allow individual property owners to provide adequate screening for
privacy on their lots without undue negative impact on the interests of
residents on abutting properties to secure adequate light and air;
   C.   To prevent visual blight, monotony and the blocking of view corridors,
arising from the placement of fences;
   D.   To protect against obstruction of stormwater runoff due to improper
location of fences in drainage ditches and channels;
   E.   To preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which fences are
installed; and
   F.   To preserve open space and facilitate the rejuvenation of woodland
areas. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to the construction of all fences in residential zoned
districts in the village. Front yard, side yard and rear yard shall have the
meanings given to such terms in section
9-2-3 of this code. This chapter shall not apply to fences enclosing tennis
courts, swimming pools or hot tubs, or temporary fences installed for
construction or erosion control, but such fences shall be subject to applicable
regulations set forth elsewhere in this code, including the published building
and safety codes adopted by reference in this title. The village board may
impose requirements relating to fences on lots on which a special use is
authorized that are controlling over the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the indicated meanings for purposes of this
chapter:
CHAINLINK FENCE: An open mesh fence made entirely of metal wire woven in
squares of a certain diameter (15/8 inch diameter or greater) to form a diamond
pattern mesh.
DEER FENCE: A square mesh or hexagonal mesh fence, with mesh size of
approximately two inches by two inches (2" x 2"), used to prevent entry by deer
or other wildlife. The mesh material is woven from polypropylene, polyethylene
nylon, or metal coated with polyethylene.
FENCE: A structure forming a barrier, which is not otherwise a part of any
building or structure, resting on or partially buried in the ground and rising
above ground level, and used for confinement, screening, partition or
ornamental purposes. A gate controlling access to a driveway or other entry
point to the property shall be considered a fence. Natural living plant
material shall not be considered a fence.
FRONT YARD, SIDE YARD AND REAR YARD: As defined in section
9-2-3 of this code.
HEIGHT OF A FENCE: The vertical distance from each point of natural ground
level to the highest point of the fence immediately above it.
OPEN FENCE: A fence having a regular pattern of which more than seventy percent
(70%) of the surface is unobstructed to both light and air when viewed
perpendicular to the plane of the fence. Open fences may include, by way of
example, wrought iron fences, deer fences, chainlink fences, woven wire and
welded wire fences.
PERIMETER FENCE: A fence erected on or within five feet (5') of one or more of
the property lines of any lot or parcel.
SOLID FENCE: A fence which does not satisfy the conditions for being classified
an open fence.
WELDED WIRE FENCE: An open mesh fence made entirely of metal wires that have
been welded into a mesh, which consists of rectangular openings of varying
diameters, the gauge and diameter of the wire being contingent on the purpose
to be served by the fence. Mesh sizes can range from one-half inch by one-half
inch (1/2" x 1/2") up to six inches by six inches (6" x 6"). Welded wire fences
are used as barriers to protect gardens and new plantings of trees and shrubs.
WOVEN WIRE FENCE: An open mesh fence made entirely of metal wire woven into
openings of varying shapes and diameters, the wire gauge and diameter of the
openings being contingent on the purpose to be served by the fence. The joints
of a woven wire fence are flexible. Woven wire fences are used in hexagonal
netting (chicken wire), field and farm fences and wildlife fences; however, for
purposes of this chapter, woven wire fences do not include chainlink fences and
deer fences, each of which is regulated as a distinct type of fence. (Ord. 11-
9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or alter any fence on any lot (or
cause the fence to be erected or altered) in the village without first
obtaining a permit, except if such fence is exempt from permit requirements
under section
8-9-7 of this chapter. A permit application shall contain a sketch of the
proposed fence, indicate the material and construction methods, the dimensions
of the proposed fence and, if the fence is located in a required yard, include
a drawing of the property indicating the location of the proposed fence on the
lot. The director of community services may require that permit applications
for driveway gates or fence structures that require additional support, larger
columns, or deeper footings must be accompanied by architectural or engineering
drawings or other requirements applicable to building permits generally. The
director of community services may require that permit applications furnish
relevant topography of drainage ditches and adjoining grades to avoid
obstruction of such drainage or plats of survey when necessary to verify
location. The director of community services shall either approve or deny the
application. If denied, the applicant may appeal to the village board, which
shall be the final review authority. The fence permit fee shall be set forth in
the village fee schedule. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-5: HEIGHT LIMITS AND SETBACKS:
Fences shall be subject to the height limits and setbacks as provided in this
section.
   A.   Height Limits And Setbacks:
      1.   Open Fences: Open fences not to exceed eight feet (8') in height are
allowed, but if located in a front yard or adjacent to a street must be set
back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the street pavement.
      2.   Solid Fences: Solid fences not to exceed six feet (6') in height are
allowed, but if located in a front yard or adjacent to a street must be set
back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the street pavement; provided,
however, solid fences located in a front yard or adjacent to a street that do
not exceed four feet (4') in height need only be set back a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from the street pavement. The setback from the street pavement for
solid fences shall not apply if the fence runs alongside Deerfield Road,
Saunders Road, or Riverwoods Road and complies with subsection E of this
section.
      3.   Screening: Fencing when used as a screen for the storage of
recreational vehicles shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height and shall not
extend farther at such height than is necessary to provide such screening.
   B.   Measuring Fence Height: When a fence is installed on top of a retaining
wall, the height of a fence shall be measured from the filled ground behind the
retaining wall. When the retaining wall extends above the ground elevation, the
remaining wall shall be considered as a portion of the fence height.
   C.   Exceptions For Posts: Posts and other vertical supports shall not
exceed by more than three inches (3") the maximum permitted fence height.
   D.   Exceptions For Pergolas, Trellises, Driveway Gates: A pergola, arbor,
trellis or similar open structure, installed at a pedestrian entry or gate
opening in a fence, and any driveway gate, shall be limited to eight feet (8')
in height and shall not extend more than six feet (6') in any horizontal
direction, excluding the portion of the structure extending across the entry or
driveway. Driveway gates shall be installed beyond the demarcation of the right
of way or street easement and at a sufficient distance from the street pavement
so that a vehicle can pull safely off the street without impeding traffic.
Structures governed by this subsection need not be made of the same material as
any fence in which they are located.
   E.   Clearance Required For Public Sidewalk Or Path: No fence shall be
constructed within two feet (2') of any public sidewalk, bicycle or multiuse
path.
   F.   Special Provisions For Dog Runs: Notwithstanding other provisions of
this chapter, fences to enclose dog runs shall not be installed within front
yards, side yards or rear yards, nor shall they be located over any easements.
Any fence used to enclose a dog run shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter. If dogs are capable of jumping over the top of the dog run fence, then
the owner shall install a top over the dog run fence. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-6: CONSTRUCTION METHODS, MATERIALS AND COLORS:
   A.   Every fence shall be designed and constructed to resist and withstand a
wind pressure from any angle of approach of not less than twenty (20) pounds
per square foot of the gross projected area of the fence, excluding open space
in the fence. All posts, anchors and bracings made from wood or other organic
materials shall be made of cedar or other naturally resistant wood or else
treated to protect from deterioration when resting upon or entering into the
ground. All fence installation methods and techniques shall comply with the
requirements of published building and safety codes adopted by reference in
this title, except as modified by this chapter.
   B.   All fences except as noted below shall be constructed primarily from
the following materials or a combination thereof:
      1.   Wood.
      2.   Wood-polymer lumber which consists of at least fifty percent (50%)
postconsumer wood fiber.
      3.   Wrought iron, steel or aluminum.
      4.   Masonry or stucco wall.
      5.   Decorative concrete block.
      6.   Stone.
Deer fences may be constructed from polypropylene, polyethylene nylon, or metal
coated with polyethylene. A fence constructed of solid plywood, scrap lumber or
other nonspecified materials shall not be permitted. All fences, posts and
supporting structures (including polypropylene mesh or metal mesh used in a
deer fence) shall be black or a neutral, earth tone color to harmonize with the
surrounding landscape of the area. Metallic surfaces of iron, steel or aluminum
fences, including chainlink fences, shall be black or a neutral, earth tone
color when such fences are located in the front, rear or side yards.
   C.   1. If a chainlink fence is installed in any front yard, side yard or
rear yard, it shall be supported by vertical and horizontal metal tubing, the
mesh and the wire size shall be a minimum of 11-gauge, the line posts and top
cross pieces shall have a minimum of one and five-eighths inches (15/8")
diameter, the terminal posts shall have a minimum of two and one-half inches
(21/2") diameter, and all unfinished edges shall be installed at the bottom of
the ground.
      2.   Any wood fence that is picket style, shadow board, or solid board on
board panel, shall have cross pieces with a minimum size of two inches by four
inches (2" x 4") and posts with a minimum size of four inches by four inches
(4" x 4").
      3.   Metal deer fence posts installed after the effective date hereof
shall have a minimum of one and five-eighths inch (15/8") diameter, and new
deer fences when installed shall have a monofilament line that runs along the
top of the fence to support the fence and prevent sagging. All deer fences
shall have brace bands, cables, earth anchors and ties as needed to provide for
a wind and snow resistant fence. Monofilament lines shall be a minimum 12-gauge
line along the top of all polypropylene deer fences over five hundred feet
(500') long, and a minimum of 8-gauge line along the top of all metal deer
fences regardless of length. Any newly installed deer fence must have white
warning flags attached (1 per 20 foot fence section) when the fence is first
installed and for three (3) months thereafter to warn deer and prevent
collisions.
   D.   The side or surface of a perimeter fence from which crossbars, lateral
reinforcement, supports or similar construction features are more visible shall
be oriented toward the inside of the lot on which such fence is being erected.
The more finished surface of the fence (from which such construction features
are less visible), shall be oriented toward any adjacent properties.
   E.   All fences shall be nonreflective or oriented so that reflected light
from automobile headlights shining on fence surfaces does not create dangerous
glare for motorists.
   F.   No fence (whether or not a fence permit is required under this chapter)
shall impede or alter the natural surface water drainage. No fence shall be
attached to or wrapped around trees.
   G.   No person shall maintain a fence on any portion of his property which
interferes with the clear view of traffic or pedestrians by drivers at the
intersection of street rights of way or at the intersection of a street right
of way and a private driveway. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-7: EXEMPT FENCES:
Fences for the following purposes are exempt and do not require a permit for
installation under this chapter:
   A.   Welded wire or woven wire metal cage fencing installed to encircle and
protect gardens, ground layer plants, shrubs or young or newly planted trees
(and not installed as perimeter fencing), provided these fences enclose no more
than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
   B.   Welded wire or woven wire metal fences, one inch (1") or smaller mesh,
may be attached to the bottom thirty six inches (36") of another fence as an
apron or ground barrier to contain pets or prevent intrusion of animals, or
burrowing or digging under the fence. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-8: UNSAFE FENCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain anywhere within the village
an electrified fence with the exceptions of: 1) electric fences commonly used
for containing household pets which consist of subsurface devices which
transmit a charge to a collar worn by the pet, and 2) fences used to corral
equine animals on a lot or parcel occupied by a private stable in which such
animals are stabled. Any electrified fence enclosing a stable shall have
warning signs attached (1 per 20 foot fence section) which give prominent
notice of the danger. The voltage used in electrified fences shall comply with
all published building and safety codes adopted in the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain on any lot a fence equipped
with or having barbed wire or topped with razor ribbon, broken glass or other
sharp objects. Wrought iron fences shall not be topped with spears or finials
unless they are blunt and pose no danger of impalement. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-
2011)
8-9-9: LEGAL NONCONFORMING FENCES:
Any fence installed prior to the effective date hereof without record of having
received a proper permit or which becomes nonconforming upon the adoption of
this chapter shall be deemed a legal, nonconforming use, provided the fence
satisfies or is brought into compliance with the requirements of subsections
8-9-6E, F and G of this chapter. If such conditions are met, the owner may
apply for and receive a permit for the fence as installed. Any such legal
nonconforming fence which receives a permit under this section may be repaired,
rebuilt or replaced with a like fence at the same location, provided that the
repair or replacement shall not increase the degree of nonconformity or create
any new noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter. However, any repair
requiring a permit or the replacement of such fence shall be complete within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the start of such action. If the repair or
replacement is not completed, the status of legal nonconformity for such fence
may be revoked by director of community services, and all characteristics of
the fence must then conform to this chapter. The director of community services
may grant one 180-day extension upon a written request by the property owner
and finding that extenuating circumstances, such as unfavorable weather for
construction, warrant the extension. The permits issued under this section and
the conditions contained herein shall not expire but shall continue to apply
notwithstanding the sale and transfer of title to the property on which the
legal, nonconforming fence is located. (Ord. 11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
8-9-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day's continued violation
shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any fine permitted or
required to be imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive relief to
prevent an actual or threatened violation of this chapter, and may also seek
mandatory injunctive relief to require the removal of any fences erected in
violation of this chapter, the corporate authorities finding that the village
will be irreparably harmed by the erection of unlawful fences, and that the
imposition of a fine alone is an inadequate remedy for such violations. (Ord.
11-9-20, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 10
RACING OR GAME TRACKS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Compliance Required
8-10-2: Definition
8-10-3: Classification
8-10-4: Location
8-10-5: Height
8-10-6: Lighting, Loudspeakers And Aboveground Seating
8-10-7: Conditions Of Operation
8-10-8: Violation
8-10-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct, install or maintain any racing or game track
in the village, except in compliance with the provisions of this code. (Ord.
97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-2: DEFINITION:
A "racing or game track" is any surface, more than ten feet (10') in length,
formed by dirt, clay, wood, cement or other hard artificial surface which is
raised in part or in whole above the surface of the ground in order to create
banked turns, bumps, obstacles and similar features to be used for competition
or games involving the use of roller skates, in-line skates, skateboards,
bicycles or other wheeled equipment. (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-
6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-3: CLASSIFICATION:
Any racing or game track shall be classified as a structure for purposes of the
Riverwoods zoning ordinance 1 . (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-
17-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-10-4: LOCATION:
Racing or game tracks shall meet all building setback requirements of the
zoning district in which they are located. No portion of a racing or game track
shall be located between the front line of any residence located on the same
lot as the racing or game track and any street abutting such lot. For purposes
of this section, the front line of any residence shall be drawn parallel to any
road abutting the lot and intersecting the point of the residence nearest to
the road. A racing or game track shall not be built as part of a driveway.
(Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-5: HEIGHT:
No racing or game track shall have portions thereof raised higher than three
feet (3') above the surface of the ground. (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord.
07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-6: LIGHTING, LOUDSPEAKERS AND ABOVEGROUND SEATING:
Lighting for playing purposes, loudspeakers and permanent aboveground seating
are prohibited. (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-7: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful to operate a racing or game track for profit and/or to
charge for use. It shall be unlawful to use a racing or game track from six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997;
amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-10-8: VIOLATION:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day's continued violation
shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any fine permitted or
required to be imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive relief to
prevent an actual or threatened violation of this chapter, and may also seek
mandatory injunctive relief to require the removal of any racing or game track
erected or used in violation of this chapter, the corporate authorities finding
that the village will be irreparably harmed by the unlawful erection or use of
racing or game tracks, and that the imposition of a fine alone is an inadequate
remedy for such violations. (Ord. 97-8-11, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-
2007)
CHAPTER 11
RIVERWOODS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY ORDINANCE
SECTION:
8-11-1: Title
8-11-2: Duty To Provide Insurance
8-11-3: Minimum Ratings Of Insurance Companies
8-11-4: Required Insurance Coverages
8-11-5: Required Endorsements
8-11-6: Certificates Of Insurance
8-11-7: Indemnity Agreement
8-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the RIVERWOODS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 03-11-28, 11-18-2003; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-11-2: DUTY TO PROVIDE INSURANCE:
   Every contract or subcontract entered into by the village for demolition,
grading, excavation, building, construction, reroofing, opening up or covering
streets or culverts, street repairs, repaving or reconstruction, utility
installations, landscaping, tree removal, fence installation and any similar
work or activity of any kind shall be deemed to incorporate the insurance
coverages and endorsements set forth in this chapter as if such provisions were
set out verbatim in such contracts or subcontracts. Each party performing work
for the village under such contract or subcontract shall be referred to in this
chapter as a "contractor". Each contractor shall have the duty to comply with
the provisions of this chapter. When procuring proposals for goods or services,
the Village shall determine, in consultation with its risk manager, whether
insurance by the vendor or provider shall be required and if so the types and
amounts of coverage that may be required and may adopt insurance requirements
incorporating the provisions of this chapter, with such modifications as are
deemed appropriate, or may require additional coverage (such as professional
liability). The term “contractor” as used in this chapter, refers to a vendor
or service provider under contract with the Village; “additional insured”
refers to each party required to be named as an additional insured pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 03-11-28, 11-18-2003; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007; Ord. 24-10-14, 10-1-
2024)
8-11-3: MINIMUM RATINGS OF INSURANCE COMPANIES:
All insurance to be furnished pursuant to this chapter shall be obtained from
responsible insurers licensed in the state of Illinois, rated at least A and
financial size category X or higher by A.M. Best Company, and otherwise
acceptable to the village. Any deductible and/or self-insured retention shall
be the responsibility of the contractor, but the maximum self-insured retention
shall be twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). (Ord. 03-11-28, 11-18-2003;
amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-11-4: REQUIRED INSURANCE COVERAGES:
   The insurance coverages and endorsements described in this section, subject
to the requirements noted in this chapter, shall generally follow the coverages
developed for the insurance industry by such companies as the Insurance
Services Organization, Inc., (ISO) and National Council on Compensation
Insurance (NCCI). The village retains the right at all times to approve,
approve with modifications or reject any policy or endorsement modifications,
manuscript endorsements, or nonequivalent or subsequent versions of such policy
forms and endorsements as from time to time may be issued by any insurance
company, if the village determines that any such modifications, endorsements or
nonequivalent forms would not provide the coverage that is intended to be
provided pursuant to this chapter. Each contractor shall maintain the following
minimum insurance coverages prior to entering or commencing work on site, and
throughout all periods that work is being performed and for any continuation
period as may herein be required:
   A.   Commercial General Liability: Broad form commercial general liability
insurance in the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000) per occurrence and
in the aggregate on a per location basis, which will be considered equivalent
to the required minimum limits, and such insurance shall (i) be written on an
occurrence form, (ii) be written on a primary policy form; such insurance shall
include independent contractor coverage and shall cover the acts or works of
any of the contractor's subcontractors and any other person(s) acting on behalf
of the contractor, as respects any liability that may occur to the Village and/
or any additional insureds from such acts, errors, omissions or work. The
commercial general liability policy shall be endorsed so that the general
aggregate limit applies separately to each project and/or location. Insurance
coverages and endorsements for commercial general liability insurance shall be
at least as broad as the latest ISO Form CG 00 01. The contractor must include
all parties named as additional insureds for ongoing and completed operations
on a primary and non-contributory basis. The products and completed operations
aggregate shall be maintained for five (5) years after the final payment.
   B.   Workers' Comp And Employer's Liability: Worker's compensation insurance
in statutory limits and employer's liability insurance with limits of not less
than five million dollars ($5,000,000), per accident, per employee, and per
policy, insuring contractor's employees who are to provide labor or service
under the contract must be insured; no exclusions shall be allowed for any
officer or employee.
   C.   Auto Liability: Automobile Liability insurance covering all owned, non-
owned, and hired vehicles, as applicable to, or for any use related to, the
performance of the work, with a five million dollars ($5,000,000) per accident
limit for bodily injury and property damage. This policy shall be written to
cover any auto whether owned, leased, hired or borrowed.
   D.   Umbrella/Excess Liability: The contractor may use an umbrella and/or
excess liability policy to meet the minimum requirements of the commercial
general liability, employer's liability and automobile liability coverage to
achieve the limits required in the foregoing subsections. The policy will
separately comply with the additional insured, primary and noncontributory and
waiver of subrogation requirements herein, and shall be written as follow form
or alternatively with a form that provides coverage at least as broad as each
of the underlying primary policies. The umbrella and/or excess liability policy
shall be specifically endorsed to provide primary and non-contributory coverage
with respect to any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Village or
any additional insured and no wording for horizontal exhaustion shall apply.
(Ord. 24-10-14, 10-1-2024)
8-11-5: REQUIRED ENDORSEMENTS:
   A.   Notice Of Cancellation Endorsement: All of the policies of insurance
required of contractors by this chapter shall be endorsed with a notice of
cancellation endorsement containing the following language or similar
provisions acceptable to the village:
      This policy shall not be canceled, terminated, modified or changed by the
Company unless thirty (30) days' prior written notice is sent by registered
mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to: Village of
Riverwoods, 300 Portwine Road, Riverwoods, Illinois, 60015, Attn: Village
President.
   B.   Additional Insured Endorsements: The liability policies shall be
endorsed to name the following parties as additional insureds, or such other
parties as may be specified by the Village:
      The Village of Riverwoods and its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, agents, volunteers and representatives, including any of
the foregoing who shall resign, all in compliance with the terms of the
Riverwoods Insurance and Indemnity Ordinance.
(Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
   In the case of the Commercial General Liability Policy, the additional
insured endorsement shall be the ISO Form CG 20 26 "Additional Insured-
Designated Person Or Organization", latest edition, or a form with coverage at
least as broad acceptable to the Village or in the event of work done for the
Village CG 2010 and CG 20 37, 2001 edition, or a form with coverage at least as
broad acceptable to the Village. The additional insured endorsement shall not
limit the Village’s protection by excluding from coverage any liabilities
arising out of any negligent acts committed by any of the additional insureds.
   C.   Waiver Of Subrogation Endorsements: Each insurance policy required in
this chapter shall be endorsed to provide that the insurance company waives all
rights of subrogation against the village and all other additional insureds. In
the case of a commercial general liability policy, the waiver of subrogation
endorsement shall be the ISO Form CG 2404 1093 "Waiver Of Transfer Of Rights Of
Recovery Against Others To Us", latest edition, or a form with coverage at
least as broad acceptable to the village. In the case of the workers'
compensation policy, the waiver of subrogation endorsement shall be NCCI Form
WC 00 03 13, latest edition, or a form with coverage at least as broad
acceptable to the village. (Ord. 03-11-28, 11-18-2003; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-
2007)
   D.   No Privity Requirements: The additional insured forms shall not have
wording that excludes required coverage elements for any of the additional
insureds. Privity of contract language is strictly prohibited in any additional
insured, primary and non-contributory and waiver of subrogation forms. (Ord.
24-10-14, 10-1-2024)
8-11-6: CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE:
   A.   Form Of Certificates: Original, executed certificates of insurance,
naming the village as certificate holder, shall be filed with the village prior
to the issuance of a work permit and prior to entering or commencing work on
any site. If requested by the village, all certificates of insurance must have
attached thereto or be accompanied by the actual, signed endorsements to the
underlying policies or copies of the policies so as to demonstrate, in a manner
acceptable to the village, that the required endorsements have been bound by
the insurance company. All additional insureds must be listed on the
certificate of insurance. An example may include, but not be limited to, being
signed by an officer of the insurance company issuing the policy or by an
authorized designated agent of that insurance company.
   B.   Continuation Certificates: Insurance coverages that are to remain in
force and effect upon completion of the construction or work will require an
additional certificate of insurance evidencing continuation of such coverage.
Such additional certificates shall be submitted upon completion and acceptance
of the construction improvements and upon one year thereafter.
   C.   Village Not Bound By Certificates: Any acceptance of insurance
certificates by the village shall in no way limit or relieve the contractor of
its duties and responsibilities assumed or imposed under applicable village
ordinances. Acceptance of insurance certificates not in compliance with the
provisions of these requirements by the village shall not constitute a waiver
of these requirements. (Ord. 03-11-28, 11-18-2003; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
8-11-7: INDEMNITY AGREEMENT:
   A.   Indemnity Given To The Village: Any contractor with an agreement with
the village to perform work (as specified in its contract or in its permit
application) and any road association which has entered into a "service
agreement" (as such term is defined in title 7, chapter 5 of this code) with
the village shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village
and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents,
volunteers and representatives, including any of the foregoing who shall
resign, and its engineers, foresters, attorneys and other consultants, and all
homeowners' associations, owners and occupants of property located in the
village (each such person or organization is herein referred to as an
"indemnified party"), harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, payments, suits, actions, recoveries, liabilities, judgments, damages,
losses and expenses of every nature or description, including reasonable
attorney fees, opinion witness fees and costs of suit or defense (collectively,
"claims" and individually, a "claim"), arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from: 1) the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the contractor or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
execution, performance and guarding of the work, or 2) by reason of goods,
merchandise or supplies or materials supplied or used by any of them,
regardless of whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by other applicable law, rule or regulation authorizing or
regulating the work, 3) the village's review and approval of any plans, 4) the
issuance of any approval, permit, certificate, or acceptance of the work by the
village. (Ord. 11-12-30, 12-6-2011)
   B.   Defense Of Claim: If any claim is asserted against an indemnified
party, the indemnified party (or the village on his or her behalf) shall
promptly tender defense of the claim to the contractor. If, within twenty (20)
days after the date on which claim is tendered to the contractor, the
contractor shall give notice to the village and the indemnified party
acknowledging without qualification the contractor's indemnification
obligations pursuant to these insurance requirements, then the contractor shall
have the duty, at its sole expense, in good faith and upon the advice of
counsel, to contest, defend, litigate and settle the claim either before or
after the commencement of litigation, at such time and upon such terms as it
deems fair and reasonable, provided, that at least ten (10) days prior to any
settlement, it gives written notice to the village and the indemnified party of
its intention to settle. The contractor shall pay all costs it incurs in
connection with the defense of the claim and shall not be entitled to require
that any action be brought against any other party before the indemnified party
tenders defense of the claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the
indemnified party (or village on behalf of the indemnified party) shall have
the right to participate in the defense of such claim, and, in such event, the
parties shall cooperate in the defense of such claim.
   C.   Forfeiture Of Right To Defend Claim: If the contractor fails either to
acknowledge its indemnification obligations hereunder or diligently to contest
the claim, once such claim has been tendered by the village or indemnified
party, then the contractor shall forfeit its right to contest, defend, litigate
and settle the claim. In such event, the indemnified party shall have the
right, without prejudice to any right of indemnification hereunder, in its
discretion exercised in good faith and upon the advice of counsel, to defend
against and settle any such claim, either before or after the commencement of
litigation and upon such terms as the indemnified party deems fair and
reasonable, provided that at least ten (10) days prior to any such settlement
it gives written notice to the contractor of its intention to settle. The
village and indemnified party shall be reimbursed by the contractor for the
attorney fees, expert fees, the reasonable value of any services rendered by
any employee of the village and other expenses of defending the claim which are
incurred by them from time to time, forthwith following presentation to the
contractor of itemized bills for said attorney fees and other expenses. No
failure of the contractor to acknowledge its indemnification obligations
hereunder shall relieve the contractor of such obligations to the extent they
exist. (Ord. 03-11-28, 11-28-2003; amd. Ord. 07-4-6, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 12
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS DIVERSION
SECTION:
8-12-1: Short Title
8-12-2: Purpose
8-12-3: Definitions
8-12-4: Applicability
8-12-5: Condition Of Approval For Building Or Demolition Permits
8-12-6: Diversion Requirement
8-12-7: Waste Reduction And Recycling Plan
8-12-8: Compliance Report
8-12-9: Exceptions
8-12-10: Inspections, Inquiries And Audits
8-12-11: Enforcement; Appeals
8-12-12: Severability
8-12-13: Conflicts
8-12-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the RIVERWOODS CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION DEBRIS DIVERSION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements for recycling and
salvaging of construction and demolition debris and waste to:
   A.   Regulate the disposal of construction and demolition waste generated at
the source;
   B.   Recover materials generated by the construction and demolition of
buildings that would otherwise be discarded for the purpose of recycling and
return them to the economy for reuse; and
   C.   Promote sustainable building practices. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
except when the context otherwise indicates:
C&D DEBRIS THAT IS PROCESSED FOR USE AT A LANDFILL: C&D debris that is
processed for use as a municipal solid waste landfill unit as alternative daily
cover, road building material or drainage structure building material in
accordance with the landfill's waste disposal permit issued by the Illinois
environmental protection agency.
CONSTRUCTION: All on site work done in building new structures or additions to
structures from land clearance to completion, including, without limitation,
excavation, erection, and the assembly and installation of components and
equipment.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS OR C&D DEBRIS: Nonhazardous, uncontaminated
materials resulting from the construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition
of buildings and structures, limited to the following: bricks, concrete, and
other masonry materials; soil; rock; wood, including nonhazardous painted,
treated and coated wood and wood products; wall coverings; plaster; drywall;
plumbing fixtures; nonasbestos insulation; roofing shingles and other roof
coverings; reclaimed or other asphalt pavement; glass; plastics that are not
sealed in a manner that conceals waste; electrical wiring and components
containing no hazardous substances; and corrugated cardboard, piping or metals
incidental to any of those materials.
COVERED PROJECT: Any building construction, renovation, or demolition activity
that includes, without limitation, either: a) the construction of a new
principal structure; b) the demolition of more than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet of gross floor area; or c) renovation and/or addition of
more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of gross floor area,
but in each such case occurring pursuant to a building or demolition permit
application which is submitted on or after May 1, 2014.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process within the control of the owner of a building or
structure that results in the removal, razing, wrecking, tearing down or
destruction of a building or structure as it existed prior to the commencement
of such act or process.
DIRECTOR: The director of community services or his or her designee.
DIVERT OR DIVERSION: To manage, sort and process C&D debris into recyclable C&D
debris, recovered wood that is processed for use as a fuel, and/or C&D debris
that is processed for use at a landfill.
INERT DEBRIS: Those materials which are virtually inert, such as rock, brick,
and concrete.
RECOVERED WOOD THAT IS PROCESSED FOR USE AS FUEL: Wood that has been salvaged
from C&D debris and processed for use as fuel, as authorized by applicable
state or federal environmental regulatory authority, and supplied only to
intermediate processing facilities for sizing, or to combustion facilities for
use as fuel, that have obtained all necessary waste management and air permits
for handling and combustion of the fuel.
RECYCLABLE C&D DEBRIS: C&D debris that has been rendered reusable and is reused
or that would otherwise be disposed of or discarded but is collected,
separated, processed and returned to the economic mainstream in the form of raw
materials or products. "Recyclable C&D debris" does not include either: a)
recovered wood that is processed for use as a fuel; or b) C&D debris that is
processed for use at a landfill.
RECYCLE OR RECYCLING: To set aside, handle, process, package or offer for
collection residential, commercial or industrial solid waste materials or
byproducts for the purpose of being reused or processed and then returned to
the economic mainstream as useful products.
RECYCLING AGENT: The contractor the applicant will use on their project to
divert and recycle the amount of material required in this chapter.
REMODEL OR RENOVATION: The improvement, alteration, repair, or reconstruction
of an existing building or structure which requires a permit from the village
of Riverwoods. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all covered projects within the village, except in any
of the following circumstances:
   A.   An immediate or emergency demolition is required to protect the public
health, safety or welfare, as determined prior to such demolition by the
director or designee;
   B.   An exception is granted pursuant to section
8-12-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-5: CONDITION OF APPROVAL FOR BUILDING OR DEMOLITION PERMITS:
Compliance with the provisions of this chapter is a condition of the approval
for the building or demolition permit issued for any covered project, whether
or not stated in the permit. When submitting for a building or demolition
permit, the applicant must provide to the village the name and contact
information for a recycling agent, indicate how much material will be diverted
and such other background information as the director finds necessary to
monitor the applicant's compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-
2014)
8-12-6: DIVERSION REQUIREMENT:
For all covered projects, at least seventy five percent (75%) of construction
and demolition debris shall be diverted. During construction, the applicant is
required to keep track of the dates, tonnage and destination of debris removed
from the covered project. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-7: WASTE REDUCTION AND RECYCLING PLAN:
   A.   For covered projects, prior to issuance of a building or demolition
permit, the applicant must complete and submit to the director a waste
reduction and recycling plan on a form provided by the village. The waste
reduction and recycling plan must include the following information, and such
other information as the department may require:
      1.   Identification of materials to be diverted;
      2.   A description of whether and to what extent materials will be
separated on site or commingled;
      3.   The estimated weight of C&D debris, divided between inert debris and
other debris;
      4.   The estimated weight of the inert and other C&D debris that can be
diverted;
      5.   The estimated weight of the inert and other C&D debris that will be
landfilled as solid waste;
      6.   The identification of the vendors or facilities that will collect or
receive the construction or demolition debris, and such information as the code
official may require demonstrating that the vendor or facility will recycle all
C&D debris received from the covered project;
      7.   The estimated date on which demolition and/or construction is to
commence; and
      8.   Agreement by the general contractor for the covered project to
comply with all of the terms of the waste reduction and recycling plan and this
chapter.
Where all of the facts cannot be ascertained, the applicant shall provide the
best estimate based on all information reasonably available about the covered
project.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for a covered project unless and until the
director has reviewed and approved the project's waste reduction and recycling
plan. A waste reduction and recycling plan shall be approved only if the code
official determines that the plan demonstrates compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   C.   If the director determines that the waste reduction and recycling plan
is incomplete or fails to satisfy the requirements of this chapter, the
director may:
      1.   Return the waste reduction and recycling plan to the applicant
marked "Disapproved", including a statement of reasons for disapproval; or
      2.   Return the waste reduction and recycling plan to the applicant
marked "Further Explanation Required", including a statement of areas requiring
additional information.
   D.   An approved waste reduction and recycling plan is not permitted to be
amended without the prior written approval of the director.
   E.   If at any time it becomes apparent to the director that the contents of
an approved plan are no longer accurate, the director may require that the
applicant submit an addendum or revision to the plan with such information as
may be required by the director. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-8: COMPLIANCE REPORT:
   A.   Not less than five (5) business days prior to the scheduled date for
the final inspection of a covered project, the applicant shall submit to the
director a compliance report on a form approved by the director. The compliance
report shall provide:
      1.   The actual weight of C&D debris, which was processed for recycling
or diverted to a landfill;
      2.   Original receipts from all vendors and facilities which collected or
received C&D debris and indicate actual weights received by each recycling
vendor;
      3.   Certifications from any vendor or facility that handled C&D debris
and calculations showing the extent to which the covered project complied with
the requirements of this chapter; and
      4.   Such information as the director finds necessary to obtain accurate
reporting of the material diverted.
   B.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any property on which a
covered project has been completed unless and until: 1) a compliance report is
submitted in accordance with subsection A of this section; and 2) if
applicable, the applicant pays all penalties imposed for any violations of this
chapter. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-9: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Applicants seeking a partial or complete exception granting relief from
the requirements of this chapter must file an application with the director on
a form provided by the village, which application must include, without
limitation, a statement certifying that compliance with this chapter is
impracticable due to exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the covered project.
   B.   The director may grant the exception only if the director finds all of
the following:
      1.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the covered project that do not apply generally to covered
projects and that make compliance with this chapter impracticable;
      2.   Granting the exception will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with limitations imposed on similar covered projects;
and
      3.   Cost to the applicant of strict compliance with this chapter is not
the primary reason for granting the exception. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-10: INSPECTIONS, INQUIRIES AND AUDITS:
The director may make any and all inspections, inquiries, and audits as
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-11: ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS:
   A.   In addition to the general penalties set forth in this code, applicants
who fail to satisfy the diversion requirement established in this chapter are
subject to a penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
one-half percentage (1/2%) point of difference between the amount of C&D debris
required to be diverted and the amount actually diverted. Such penalty may be
amended from time to time in the annual fee schedule.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by any decision by the director under the
provisions of this chapter or to granting or denying an application for an
exception from compliance with this chapter may appeal the decision to the
board of trustees of the village.
   C.   An appeal shall be commenced within thirty five (35) days of the date
of the receipt of notice of the decision appealed from. Appeals not commenced
within such time shall be deemed waived.
   D.   An appeal under this section shall be commenced by filing with the
village clerk a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The village
clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board of trustees all of the papers
constituting the records upon which the decision from which appeal has been
taken was made. The notice of appeal and the appeal shall be filed in such
number of copies, be in such form and contain such information as the board of
trustees may provide from time to time by general rule.
   E.   The board of trustees shall select a reasonable time and place for a
public hearing on the appeal, shall give due notice thereof to the parties
having a known interest therein and shall render a written decision without
unreasonable delay. Upon the concurring vote of a majority of its members then
holding office, the board of trustees may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify, the decision from which the appeal was taken, and to that
end the board shall have all the powers of the director with respect to such
decision. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
8-12-13: CONFLICTS:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of ordinances adopted prior
hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord.
14-04-09, 4-16-2014)
TITLE 9
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE VILLAGE PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
9-1-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The Comprehensive Plan attached to Ordinance 99-1-1, which is on file in the
Clerk's office, is designated as the Official Comprehensive Plan of the Village
of Riverwoods. (Ord. 99-1-1, 1-5-1999)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Title
9-2-2: Purposes
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Interpretation And Construction
9-2-5: Separability
9-2-6: General Use And Building Regulations
9-2-6-1: Building On Lot
9-2-6-2: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
9-2-6-3: Prohibited Use Of Land Or Buildings
9-2-6-4: Control Over Use
9-2-6-5: Nonconforming Uses And Buildings
9-2-6-6: Accessory Uses, Buildings And Structures
9-2-6-7: Special Uses
9-2-6-8: Yards
9-2-6-9: Recreational Vehicles
9-2-6-10: Temporary Uses
9-2-6-11: Buffer Or Setback Requirements
9-2-6-12: Warning Sirens
9-2-7: Water Supply And Sewage Treatment
9-2-8: Screening Easements
9-2-9: Graphic Illustrations
9-2-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the RIVERWOODS ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-2: PURPOSES:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   To ensure that adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers may be secured;
   To ensure that the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
municipality may be conserved;
   To ensure that congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided;
   To ensure that the hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
the accumulation of runoff of storm or flood waters may be lessened or avoided;
   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and welfare;
   To ensure and facilitate the preservation of sites, areas, and structures of
historical, architectural, and aesthetic importance;
   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   To establish, regulate, and limit the building or setback lines on or along
any street, trafficway, drive, parkway, or storm or flood water runoff channel
or basin;
   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to regulate
and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such buildings;
   To classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades and industries
and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial, business,
residential and other uses;
   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number, shape,
area, and of such different classes (according to use of land and building,
height, and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area of open
spaces, or other classification) as is deemed best suited to carry out the
purposes of this section;
   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall conform;
   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the character
of such districts;
   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing buildings,
or structures, in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations
lawfully imposed under this title;
   To classify, regulate, and restrict the use of property on the basis of
family relationship as is hereinafter defined;
   To provide for the gradual elimination of uses, buildings and structures
which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which they are
made or located, including without being limited thereto provisions: 1) for the
elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas where the existing
rights of the persons in possession thereof are terminated or when the uses to
which they are devoted are discontinued; 2) for the elimination of uses to
which such buildings and structures are devoted if they are adaptable for
permitted uses; 3) for the elimination of such buildings and structures when
they are destroyed or damaged in major part, or when they have reached the age
fixed by the corporate authorities of the Municipality as the normal useful
life of such buildings or structures; (Ord. 190, 3-19-73)
   To protect adjacent, upstream and downstream private and public landowners
from increases in flood heights and velocities and resulting increases in flood
damages;
   To minimize extraordinary direct and indirect costs to governmental units
caused by developments within flood plains for roads, sewer and water, flood
control works, flood relief and emergency services;
   To reduce health and safety risks to the individual or his family or guests,
prevent blighting, and prevent economic losses which detract from community
well-being and the tax base;
   To protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard;
   To prevent water pollution, nuisances due to floating structures and debris,
and increased sedimentation; (Ord. 216, 5-19-75)
   To ensure that the Village continues to be primarily a single- family,
residential low-density land use, Village community with limited commercial
development;
   To ensure that development within the Village is compatible with and
protective of its wooded, river-influenced environment;
   To encourage maximum voluntary citizen involvement and a minimum of
government control. (Ord. 93-8-18, 8-17-93)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The language set forth in the text of this Title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future the
present;
   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter;
   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
Title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof;
and any word appearing in parentheses directly after a word herein defined
shall be construed in the same sense as that word;
   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest integral
foot. If a fraction is six inches (6") or more, the integral foot next above
shall be taken.
ACRE: A measure of land whose area is equal to forty three thousand five
hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land whose area is greater than twice the
prescribed lot area of the use district within which the tract or parcel lies
and which has not been subdivided or platted.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare not less than twenty feet (20') wide and not more
than forty feet (40') wide which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, engine rebuilding, or reconditioning of
motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame, or fender straightening
or repair; overall painting of motor vehicles.
AUTO WRECKING OR JUNKYARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure used for
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof; and including any
farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not
being restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging
and scavenging of any other goods, articles, or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline (stored only in underground
tanks), kerosene, or motor oil and lubricants or grease for operation of
automobiles are retailed directly to the public on premises, and including
minor accessories and services for automobiles, but not including major
automobile repairs and rebuilding. When the dispensing, sale, or offering for
sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than half of its
height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement shall be
counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used on an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or
signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are
provided for compensation for four (4) to twelve (12) persons.
BUILDING: A structure that is substantially enclosed by exterior walls, has a
roof supported by columns or walls, is permanently affixed to the ground, and
is intended for the shelter, protection, housing or enclosure of any persons,
animals, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
BUILDING AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after the
minimum open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance and exit doors.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from grade level to the highest
point of the roof, in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip,
or gambrel roof. Chimneys, spires, towers, radio aerials, tanks, and domes,
provided that any such projection shall not exceed the maximum permissible
building height or the actual building height, whichever is less, by more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the building on which it is located and shall not
be included in calculating building height. It is further provided that the
area of the roof covered by any such dome shall not exceed three percent (3%)
of the total roof area of said building and the building shall contain at least
six hundred thousand (600,000) square feet of floor area. Under no
circumstances shall any such projection be occupied space.
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY: A building or structure that is on the same
lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal building, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to that of
the primary or dominant use of the principal building. An accessory building or
structure that is attached to a principal building in a substantial manner by a
wall or roof shall be considered part of the principal building; "attached in a
substantial manner" means, among other things, that the accessory building is
joined to the principal building along more than half of one side of the
principal building.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the primary or dominant
use of the lot on which it is located.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, or used or
intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: A building of nonpermanent construction whose design and
construction is such that it will be used for a short period of time or that it
can be moved readily to another location.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor, and materials, or
where services are offered for remuneration.
CANNABIS: Cannabis shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et. seq.) as if that
definition were incorporated herein.
CANNABIS DISPENSARY: A facility operated by an organization or business that is
licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, to acquire cannabis from a
cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, or another
dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused
products, concentrate, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers.
A cannabis dispensary, if legally entitled to operate pursuant to this title,
shall not authorize or permit the smoking, consumption or use of cannabis in
any form within or about the facility. A cannabis dispensary shall not
constitute a permitted or special use in any district in the Village unless
expressly authorized in this title.
CARPORT: A structure attached or made part of the main structure, and which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two (2) motor driven vehicles.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION AREA: An area devoted to providing recreation for the
general public for profit.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: The following motor vehicles (but excluding recreational
vehicles):
   A.   Trucks with open beds intended or designed to contain products,
equipment, debris or materials intended for commercial or industrial use,
whether stored in the open, in a cargo storage area or covered by removable
material or fabric, but excluding small pickup trucks having a gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less and which are not
otherwise commercial vehicles (i.e., due to visible exterior lettering or logos
or attached racks or merchandise);
   B.   Box vans; cargo or panel vans in which seats behind the driver's seat
and front passenger seat have been removed or which lack side windows adjacent
to the rear seating area;
   C.   Vehicles with rear tandem wheels;
   D.   Public passenger vehicles such as limousines, commercial service vans
and taxicabs;
   E.   Vehicles painted with or displaying lettering or logos to advertise a
commercial or industrial enterprise;
   F.   Vehicles with attached racks designed to hold ladders, pipes or other
forms of contractor's equipment, or vehicles with storage boxes, lockers,
snowplows, lifts, winches, or similar attachments designed for commercial or
industrial use, or vehicles with any kind of permanently mounted equipment
requiring payment of a registration fee for such equipment under the Illinois
vehicle code; and
   G.   Vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) (as defined in the
Illinois vehicle code) in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling shared by up to and including six
(6) persons with disabilities as defined under applicable federal or state law
and who live together and intend to continue living more or less permanently
together as a single housekeeping unit in a household-like environment in which
staff persons provide supervision, care, education, and participation in
community activities for the residents with a primary goal of enabling the
resident to live as independently as possible. Community residences do not
include pre-release, work-release, probationary, or other programs that serve
as an alternative to incarceration. Community residences may include assisted
living facilities as defined under the Assisted Living and Shared Housing Act,
210 ILCS 9/1 et seq. For purposes of this definition, "persons with disability"
shall not include any person involved in the current, illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of the
Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. Sec. 802), nor does it include any person
whose residency would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of
other individuals or whose residency would result in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
CONFERENCE FACILITY: An establishment engaged in the rental of its building or
a portion thereof for corporate retreats, assemblies, conferences, seminars,
workshops, or other similar activities intended for participants from private
organizations and their guests. A conference facility may include dining
facilities for the use of participants, as well as other compatible accessory
uses, but may not include sleeping or dwelling quarters or lodging as an
accessory use to the conference facility.
CONTAINER RENTAL FACILITY: An establishment engaged in the rental of roll-off
dumpsters and other forms of temporary storage containers. Such containers are
delivered to off site locations for storage and shipment of goods or for
collecting construction debris, discarded appliances, furnishings and other
fixtures or personal property slated for waste yard disposal. This
establishment does not rent its containers for use in the collection of
landscape waste, putrescible garbage or hazardous or toxic materials. All
containers on site are empty except for scrap metal or salvage items retrieved
from jobs which are kept entirely within containers for not more than seven (7)
days as a temporary means of storage until such materials are sorted and moved
off site.
COUNTRY CLUB: A private eighteen (18) hole golf course with a main clubhouse
and related facilities, operated as a proprietary or member owned club, and
which may offer tennis, swimming or other similar recreational and sports
activities, the dispensing and serving of food and beverages, and hosting of
social and business events. A country club shall have dues paying members for
whom the country club is the home club or primary affiliation (even though
members may patronize affiliated clubs). A country club shall not offer or host
sports or events involving the discharge of firearms or use of motorized
vehicles, provided that the use of motorized vehicles incidental to the
maintenance or operation of the premises and the use of golf carts for golf
course purposes shall be allowed. A country club shall not contain overnight
sleeping facilities. A country club may serve alcoholic beverages subject to
and in compliance with the conditions of its liquor license issued by the
village.
COUNTRY CLUB RESIDENCE: Single-family dwelling located on one acre of ground
(exclusive of road) adjacent to a country club.
CULTURAL CENTER: A nonresidential, social and cultural center operated by a
private, not for profit organization dedicated to serving the membership of
such organization in order to preserve the cultural heritage of the members by
sponsoring social, cultural and educational events, performances and programs,
including holiday celebrations and community meals, church services, music,
dance, dramatic, or other performances, and maintaining a library, museum or
gallery operated primarily for the display, rather than the sale, of works of
art. The primary use and operation of a cultural center shall be in furtherance
of its mission and will be subject to express limitations applicable thereto as
prescribed by the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
CURB GRADE: The elevation of the established curbs in front of a building or
structure, measured at the center of such front. Where no curb grade has been
established, it shall be deemed to be the established elevation of the
centerline of the street surface in front of a building or structure measured
at the centerline of such front.
DECK: A surfaced area, open to the sky, erected within eight feet (8') above
the adjacent finished grade, and that is usually directly adjacent or attached
to a building.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the village for
which the regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land
are uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DOG, ADULT: Any canine animal of four (4) or more months of age.
DOG KENNEL: Any premises where three (3) or more adult dogs are owned, boarded,
bred and/or offered for sale.
DWELLING: Any building that contains one or more dwelling units used, intended,
or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied,
or that are occupied for living purposes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building designed and/or arranged for two (2) or more
housekeeping units and for occupancy and use by two (2) or more families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling that is a separate building occupied for
living purposes by a single household. A single-family dwelling is sometimes
referred to as a single-family detached dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EARLY CHILDHOOD FACILITY: A privately owned preschool, nursery school or
childcare facility serving children nine (9) years of age and under, but no
more than thirty (30) children in a morning session or afternoon session on any
weekday. The morning and afternoon session must be separated by a minimum of
two (2) hours. An early childhood facility does not provide care or instruction
during more than twelve (12) hours in a twenty four (24) hour period.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption (including
foster children), or a group of not more than three (3) unrelated persons,
exclusive of domestic servants and not more than two (2) gratuitous guests,
maintaining a common household in a single dwelling unit.
FAMILY RELATIONSHIP: Persons related by blood, marriage, civil union, or legal
adoption.
FENCE ORDINANCE: Ordinance 11-9-20 adopted on September 20, 2011, codified as
title 8, chapter 9 of this code, as amended.
FLOOD CREST ELEVATION: The elevation of the highest flood level, as measured by
the state of Illinois, division of waterways.
FLOOD FRINGE LANDS: Those portions within the regulatory floodplain outside the
regulatory floodway.
FRONTAGE: All the property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
the intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store the private vehicles of the
family residents upon the premises and in which no business service, or
industry connected directly or indirectly with automotive vehicles is carried
on.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage, used for the care,
repair, or equipment of automobiles, or where such vehicles are parked or
stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure.
GARDEN SUPPLY CENTER: An establishment engaged in the retail sale of plants and
the sale or rental of garden and landscape materials and equipment. This
activity may include outdoor storage of plants, materials or equipment, if
authorized as an accessory use.
GOLF COURSE: An area of land laid out and maintained for the purpose of playing
golf and improved with such buildings and structures as are necessary for such
purpose.
GRADE LEVEL: The mean level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior front walls of a building or structure, provided that such mean
level shall not exceed the level of the original surface of the ground at such
location by more than one and one-half feet (11/2') unless the establishment of
a higher finished grade level is authorized by the terms and provisions of the
site development permit, pursuant to the provisions of title 8, chapter 5 of
this code.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, exclusive of terraces, breezeways, open
porches, carports and garages.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation engaged in by occupant of a dwelling
unit at or from the dwelling unit, lot, or accessory building. Home occupations
shall include home stay rentals when permitted by this title.
HOME STAY RENTAL: The rental use of a dwelling unit by persons other than the
primary residents, provided the term of rental occupancy must be equal to or
greater than four (4) consecutive weeks to constitute a home stay rental.
HOSPITAL OR SANATORIUM: An institution open to the public, in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guestrooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
HOUSEHOLD: Persons occupying a dwelling unit consisting of: (a) one, two or
three persons occupying a dwelling unit; or (b) four or more persons occupying
a dwelling unit who live together as a single housekeeping unit, when such
persons are defined by family relationship or constitute the functional
equivalent of a household defined by family relationship in the manner
described below. A household may include (i) one or more health aides in
residence who are contracted or hired to provide necessary health care or
assistance with the activities of daily living to any member of the household
and (ii) not more than two full-time domestic assistants in residence hired as
household employees. Four or more persons not defined by family relationship
but living together as a single housekeeping unit are considered the functional
equivalent of a household defined by family relationship, if the following
criteria are present:
   A.   The household is one which in size, appearance, structure and function
resembles a household defined by family relationship;
   B.   The occupants share the entire dwelling unit and live and cook together
as a single housekeeping unit;
   C.   The household shares expenses for food, rent or ownership costs,
utilities and other household expenses and the occupants are not merely
separate roomers;
   D.   The household is not transient or temporary in nature but is permanent
and stable, as evidenced by:
      1.   The presence of minor dependent children regularly residing in the
household;
      2.   Members of the household have the same address for purposes of
voter's registration, driver's license, motor vehicle registration and filing
of taxes;
      3.   The household has been living together as a unit for a year or more
whether in the current dwelling unit or other dwelling units; and
      4.   Any other factor reasonably related to whether or not the group is
the functional equivalent of a household defined by family relationship.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of product or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY: An establishment licensed by a
governmental authority to engage in the composting of grass clippings,
shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the
result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees. Property on which the
principal use is residential and on which the landscape waste is accumulated
exclusively on site and then composted shall not be considered a landscape
waste composting facility.
LIMITED RESTAURANT: A restaurant providing sit down dining with a maximum
indoor seating capacity of not more than eighty (80) guests. "Sit down dining"
shall mean the provision of full service (where items are ordered from the
patron's table and served by waitstaff at the patron's table) or limited
service (where items are ordered at a counter and then served by waitstaff on
nondisposable tableware at the patron's table). A limited restaurant may be
authorized to sell food or beverages which are paid for before consumption and
then served in disposable containers for immediate consumption off the
premises. Carryout service at a limited restaurant need not be an incidental
use, provided that sit down dining is also provided. Wine and beer in a limited
restaurant may be authorized by appropriate liquor permit, provided the service
of wine and beer shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the primary
activity.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to
the public or transients.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom; in a suite of
rooms, each room shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A single tract of land under ownership or control within a block, either a
lot of record or a zoning lot.
   Lot Area: The area of horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through side, front and rear lot lines.
   Lot Corner: A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersection
where the lot lines form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). A lot abutting a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if the intersecting tangents of the curve extended from the points
of the curve or from the intersections of the side lot lines with the arc of
the curve form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
   Lot, Flag: An irregular lot under single ownership or control which consists
of a stem which fronts on a public or private street, but the stem does not
meet the requirement for minimum frontage, and the main body of the lot which
does not front on a public or private street as normally required. The platting
of new flag lots is prohibited, except as a special use subject to section
9-11-9 of this title. In such cases, the area of the stem shall not count
toward the required minimum lot size.
   Lot, Frontage: The width of a lot measured along the lot line, front.
   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
   Lot Line: A property line of any lot held in single or separate ownership;
except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting street, the
lot line shall be deemed to be the abutting boundary of the street right of way
or the abutting boundary line of a private easement or roadway connecting the
subject lot (and other lots, if any, contiguous to the subject property) with a
public street.
   Lot Line, Front: The street shall be deemed the front lot line of an
interior lot, and the shorter street line the front lot line of a corner lot.
Where a lot abuts solely a cul-de-sac, the front lot line shall be the abutting
right of way line of the cul-de-sac. Where the lot abuts both a cul-de-sac and
one or more streets, the front lot shall be the shortest lot line abutting such
streets; except that where the lot line abutting the cul-de- sac equals or
exceeds the required minimum frontage of the district in which the lot is
located the lot line exposed to the cul-de-sac shall be the front lot line.
   Lot Line, Rear: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
is approximately, parallel with the front lot line. If the rear lot line is
less than ten feet (10') in length, or if lot forms a point at the rear, the
rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the
lot, parallel with, and at the maximum distance from, the front lot line.
   Lot Line, Side: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   Lot Of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County, Illinois.
   Lot, Through: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel streets. On a
through lot only one street line shall be deemed a front line.
   Lot With Frontage: A lot of record which fronts on or abuts a public or
private street.
   Lot Without Frontage: A lot of record which does not front on or abut a
public or private street. The platting of new lots without frontage is
prohibited, except as a special use subject to section
9-11-9 of this title.
   Lot, Zoning: A single tract of land located within a single block which is
designated by the municipality on the adopted zoning map, or which at the time
of filing an application for a building use permit is designated by its owner
or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control, and which meets all the requirements for the
proposed use. Once a tract of land has been designated as a zoning lot, it may
be used only in the manner permitted for a lot of record, in the most
restrictive zoning district wherein any part of the tract of land is located.
NONCONFORMING RECORDED LOT: A tract of land, designated on a duly recorded
subdivision plat, or by a duly recorded deed, or by other lawful means which
has less than the minimum lot area or width or other dimension prescribed for
the particular zone in which it was located at the time of such recording, but
was made nonconforming by the adoption of the zoning ordinance, a subsequent
amendment thereto or by an annexation. If a tract of land which is entitled to
a building permit under the terms of this title, either as a conforming lot or
as a nonconforming recorded lot, is reduced in size by the acquisition of a
portion of said tract, by negotiation or by condemnation, for highway purposes
by the Lake County highway department or by the state highway department or by
the village of Riverwoods, the remainder of said tract shall have the status of
a nonconforming recorded lot.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES: A nonconforming structure is one which was legally
constructed prior to the effective date of the zoning ordinance, or subsequent
amendment thereto or prior to an annexation which would not be permitted as a
new structure under the terms of this title because such structure is not in
conformance with the yards, height, coverage, or floor area ratio requirements
of the zone in which it is located. A structure located on a nonconforming
recorded lot is not classified as a nonconforming structure because of
insufficient lot area or width.
NONCONFORMING USES: A nonconforming use is an activity using land legally
established prior to the effective date of the zoning ordinance, or subsequent
amendment thereto or prior to an annexation which would not be permitted as a
new use in the zone in which it is located under the terms of this title.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of children or the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries, or for
surgical care.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A second set of regulations applied to any part or all of a
zoning district or any number of districts. The boundaries of an overlay
district may or may not coincide with any underlying zoning district. Overlay
district regulations may relax or further restrict the number or types of uses
allowed as well as the way permitted activities operate within the overlay
district boundaries. Such districts are mapped on an overlay district appendix
to the village's zoning map.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile,
which has adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting
satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
PATIO: A surfaced area, open to the sky, located at or below finished grade,
and that is usually directly adjacent or attached to a building. The term patio
shall include any area surfaced with materials other than dirt, bark or wood
chips, flowers or vegetative ground covers.
PLAYHOUSE: An accessory building or structure with four (4) walls whose
intended use is by children for recreational activity.
POOLS: See definition of Structure.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PREPARED FOOD SHOP: A place of business that offers seating and carryout
service and that is principally devoted to the sale of bakery items, such as
bread, rolls, muffins, pastries, tarts, pies and similar baked goods, as well
as sandwiches, coffee, tea, nonalcoholic beverages and cold refreshments. This
term includes an establishment known as a bakery, sandwich shop, coffee shop,
or an ice cream parlor. A prepared food shop may use ovens to bake goods and
may serve food that is warmed or assembled on the premises (e.g., by microwave,
heating lamps or toaster), but other cooking methods, such as frying, grilling
or roasting, are not allowed in a prepared food shop. Wine and beer in a
prepared food shop may be authorized by appropriate liquor permit, provided the
service of wine and beer shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
primary activity.
PRIMARY RESIDENTS: The member or members of a household that reside in a
dwelling unit as a single household and for whom the dwelling unit is a primary
or secondary place of residence. Evidence of such residency may include motor
vehicle registration, driver’s license, voter registration, general homestead
exemption, occupancy by the primary residents for sixty (60) days or more in
the previous twelve months or the existence of a lease agreement with the
owner.
PRIVATE DINING FACILITY: A facility that meets all of the following criteria:
a) one or more rooms are operated in conjunction with a kitchen contained in a
cultural center; b) meal service is provided for patrons who are not members of
the cultural center but who rent the facility for an event; c) no more than two
(2) patron groups occupy the facility at one time; and d) service is only
available by appointment or reservation. Meals may be catered or brought in by
individuals or an off site vendor.
PRIVATE INSTRUCTIONAL FACILITY: An establishment that rents classroom or other
portions of its facility to private instructors or companies who for
compensation, provide courses of instruction for individual enrichment, such as
courses in foreign language, fitness, health, pregnancy, nutrition and
exercise, martial arts, yoga, fine arts (including music, art, dance, film, and
theater), computer skills, hobby interests, tests or exam preparation and
tutoring.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any motor home, pop up camper, boat, canoe, hovercraft or
other watercraft device, motorcycle or off road vehicle, snowmobile or
snowmobile trailer, open trailers and other recreational vehicles designed for
any similar purpose.
REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION:
   A.   North Branch (West Fork) Of The Chicago River Basin: That "elevation"
as defined by the Illinois department of transportation, division of waterways,
regulatory floodplain maps and profiles, of the north branch of the Chicago
River, revised January 1975. For purposes of this title that elevation shall be
six hundred sixty six feet (666') above mean sea level (1929 datum), or as said
regulatory flood elevation for the north branch (west fork) of the Chicago
River at Duffy Lane may from time to time be amended by the department of
transportation.
   B.   Des Plaines River Basin: That "elevation" as defined by the Illinois
department of transportation, division of waterways, regulatory floodplain maps
and profiles of the Des Plaines River. For purposes of this title that
elevation shall be six hundred forty five feet (645') above mean level (1929
datum), or as said regulatory flood elevation for the Des Plaines River at
Deerfield Road, may from time to time be amended by the department of
transportation.
REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: That elevation which is one foot (1')
above the regulatory flood elevation which provides freeboard protection
against ice jams, waves and debris.
REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN: The continuous area adjacent to a stream, including the
stream, the elevation of which is equal to or less than the regulatory flood
elevation.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: That portion of the regulatory floodplain required to
store and convey floodwaters as shown on the regulatory floodplain maps and
profiles (described in subsections A and B of the definition of Regulatory
Flood Elevation).
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: A church, synagogue, temple, meetinghouse, mosque or
other place of religious worship, including any accessory use or structure,
such as a school, daycare center or dwelling, provided that such school,
daycare center or dwelling shall remain accessory to the principal use for a
place of religious worship and that the combined square footage of all
accessory uses shall constitute less than twenty five percent (25%) of the
square footage of the principal building or buildings.
SIGN: As defined in the Riverwoods sign ordinance, as amended from time to time
(title 12 of this code).
SITE AREA: The minimum land area for a use to receive an O and R1. The minimum
site area may, if sufficient area is present, be further subdivided pursuant to
the provisions of title 10, "Subdivision Regulations", of this code.
STABLE, COMMERCIAL: A commercial building where horses are trained, bred, or
kept for hire or boarded for remuneration.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A building where equine animals are kept solely for recreation
without remuneration.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall not be counted
as a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall for more than three feet (3') above the top floor level
and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
completed for principal or accessory uses.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, ROAD, LANE, TERRACE OR HIGHWAY): All property dedicated,
acquired by public use, or granted as an easement, and intended for public or
private travel by persons or vehicles.
For the purpose of frontage requirements, a "road", "street", "avenue", "lane"
or "highway" shall mean an easement or right of way which must serve three (3)
or more properties.
STREET, DISCONTINUED: Any portion of a street easement or right of way which,
though described in a recorded instrument or subdivision plat: a) has not been
improved to allow for vehicular traffic at any time since the recording of such
instrument or plat and b) has remained unused for more than forty (40) years
since the recording of the instrument or plat. If a street has been installed
within the right of way, the entire width of such right of way in the improved
section is considered in use for street purposes, even if the road surface
occupies only a portion of the available right of way.
STREET LINE: Either boundary of the right of way of a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as, but not limited to,
bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders; or any substantial
change in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: An improvement upon land, other than the land itself, the use of
which requires more or less permanent location on the ground or attachment to
something having a permanent location on the ground, including, but not limited
to, buildings, fences, freestanding signs, patios, parking areas and
playhouses.
TENT: A structure or enclosure, the roof of which or one-half (1/2) or more of
the sides are constructed of nylon, cotton, canvas or similar materials.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located next to each unit, including auto courts, motels, or motor lodges.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests.
TRACT: Any parcel or parcels of land of any size or configuration, whether
platted and subdivided and made a matter of public record or not and having one
or more owners, public or private, together with any improvements thereon.
TRAILER: Any vehicles or similar portable structure originally designed or
converted so as to provide living quarters.
TRAILER, AUTOMOBILE: A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by a
motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation or for carrying persons or
property, including a trailer coach or house trailer.
TRAILER CAMP AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one family living in an automobile house trailer.
TRANSITIONAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling that is shared by up to and
including six (6) persons with disabilities as defined under applicable federal
or state law who do not live more or less permanently together as a single
housekeeping unit but rather intend to live together for a temporary period
while receiving continuous professional guidance and related services related
to their disabilities with a primary goal of enabling the transitional
residents to live and work as independently as possible without need of
residing in a transitional residence. Transitional residences do not include
pre-release, work-release, probationary, or other programs that serve as an
alternative to incarceration. For purposes of this definition, "persons with
disability" shall not include any person involved in the current, illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of the
Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. Sec. 802), nor does it include any person
whose residency would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of
other individuals or whose residency would result in substantial physical
damage to the property of others. A facility director/supervisor may be housed
in the transitional residence and does not count in the number of permitted
transitional residents.
TREE CARE CONTRACTOR: An establishment engaged in tree care activities,
including: clearing obstructive vegetation from transmission and distribution
lines or other utilities; removing fallen trees, dead or diseased trees or
trees damaged by wind, ice, snow or rain; preparing tree inventories and
management plans, selectively removing or thinning trees, pruning, cabling or
bracing trees, and soil management and fertilization. A tree care contractor
may operate hand fed wood chipper machines off site to reduce the volume of
wood waste before transporting the wood waste to the contractor's
establishment. A tree care contractor (unless also granted approval as a wood
waste recycling facility) may not chip, grind or process wood waste at its
establishment.
TUB GRINDER: A diesel powered wood industrial grinding machine in which wood
waste is fed overhead into a large rotating tub and, through the action of a
hammer mill or cutting drum, mechanically ground and reduced in size. Tub
grinders vary by size, type of material that can be ground, engine horsepower
(ranging from about 200 hp to 950 hp) and output capacity. Tub grinders are
larger, have greater capacity and differ in operation from hand fed brush
chippers used for roadside chipping by landscape contractors.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   Use, Accessory: A subordinate use, such as a private garage, which is
clearly and customarily incidental to the principal use of a building or
premises, and which is located on the same lot as the principal building or
use, except for such necessary parking facilities as are specifically
authorized to be located elsewhere.
   Use, Principal: The main use of land or building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Riverwoods.
WARNING SIREN: A warning siren, which is mounted on a treated timber pole not
exceeding sixty feet (60') in height, with associated siren control and power
equipment that is owned by the village and designed and used as a mass alert
warning system for weather and other emergencies.
WIDTH, AVERAGE LOT: The total area of the lot divided by the arithmetic sum of
the lengths of the side lot lines divided by two (2).
WOOD WASTE: Accumulations principally of tree limbs, brush, green wood, or
other forms of wood debris with a high carbon to nitrogen (C:N) mass. Wood
waste does not include turf lawn, grass clippings or green waste with a low
carbon to nitrogen (C:N) mass.
WOOD WASTE RECYCLING FACILITY: An establishment engaged in processing wood
waste into reusable material, using a tub grinder to grind and screen the
material to produce varieties of wood mulch products. Wood waste of less than
three inches (3") diameter may be ground in several courses, first into two
inch (2") size chips and then reground into finer material, suitable for
applying as a mulch layer on the soil surface. The facility may conduct
wholesale and retail sales of wood mulch products, produced on or off site. A
wood waste recycling facility does not compost yard waste and is not engaged in
the business of a landscape waste composting facility.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except by natural topographical features and except as
otherwise permitted in this title. A yard extends along a lot line and at right
angles to such line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for
the district in which such lot is located.
   Yard, Front: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines.
   Yard, Rear: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
and extended for the full width of the lot; provided, that in those locations
where an easement is platted in the rear of the lot, one-half (1/2) of the
width of the platted easement may be included in the rear yard requirements;
provided, that such one-half (1/2) of the easement does not exceed five feet
(5').
   Yard, Side: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord. 216, 5-19-1975; Ord. 83-12-13, 12-
5-1983; Ord. 86-11-23, 11-18-1986; Ord. 87-2-4, 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-11-23, 11-
15-1988; Ord. 89-1-2, 1-17-1989; Ord. 92-11-16, 10-20-1992; Ord. 95-9-11, 9-19-
1995; Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999; Ord. 00-1-1, 1-18-2000; Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003;
Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010; Ord. 11-11-26, 11-15-2011; Ord.
12-6-7, 6-5-2012; Ord. 15-01-01, 1-6-2015; Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015; Ord. 16-10-
19, 10-18-2016; Ord. 20-01-01, 1-21-2020; Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-2021; Ord. 23-08-
10, 8-1-2023)
9-2-4: INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this title upon: 1)
the use of land or buildings; 2) the bulk of the buildings; 3) lot area
requirements; and 4) yard requirements, are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other rule or regulation
of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this title shall
govern.
   D.   No building, structure or use not lawfully existing at the time of the
adoption of this title shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of the
adoption of this title, and, to the extent that, and in any manner that, said
unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict with the requirements of
this title, said building, structure or use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord.
80-5-7, 5-27-1980)
   E.   The graphic illustrations labeled "Types Of Lots", "Minimum Interior
Lot Standards", and "Minimum Corner Lot Standards" and the chart labeled
"Minimum Lot Standards" appear in section
9-2-9 of this chapter, are intended as summaries or depictions of the
requirements set forth in the text of this title and shall be used in
construing the meaning of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 95-9-11, 9-19-
1995)
9-2-5: SEPARABILITY:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this title not specifically included in said judgment or decree; and
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to any particular property,
building, or other structure, said judgment shall not affect that application
of said provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment or decree. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6: GENERAL USE AND BUILDING REGULATIONS:
9-2-6-1: BUILDING ON LOT:
In single-family residential districts, every single-family dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot, and there shall be
not more than one principal building on one lot. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-2: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings are allowed in the districts indicated
hereinafter in chapters 4 through 7 of this title, under the conditions
specified in this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof;
   B.   Permitted uses as designated in chapters 4 through 7 of this title;
   C.   Special uses as designated in section
9-11-9 of this title. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-3: PROHIBITED USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
No building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than one which
is specified as a permitted or special use under chapters 4, 5, 6 and 7 and
section
9-11-9 of this title in the zoning district in which such land or building is
located. However, where a building or structure permit has been legally issued
in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this title, and provided
that construction is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with approved plans on the basis of which the building
permit has been issued and further may, upon completion, be occupied under a
certificate of occupancy for the use for which originally designated. (Ord.
190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-4: CONTROL OVER USE:
No building or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or
structure or part thereof shall be erected, raised, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
specified for the district in which it is located. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-5: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Nonconforming Legal Uses: Any lawful use of land or structures, or any
structure, existing at the date of passage of this title or subsequent
amendment thereto, and located in a zone in which it would not be permitted as
a new use or structure under the terms of this title is declared to be a legal
nonconformance. It is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformances
to continue until terminated either by voluntary act or by catastrophic event,
and to encourage their conversion to conformance where possible.
   B.   Nonconforming Recorded Lot Regulations: Construction of new buildings,
alterations or repair of existing buildings that are being used for permitted
uses but are located on nonconforming recorded lots shall be permitted. If any
building is damaged or destroyed, it can be rebuilt for its original permitted
use to the extent of its original development.
   C.   Nonconforming Structure Regulations: If any dwelling is damaged or
destroyed, it can be rebuilt for its original permitted use to the extent of
its original development and repairs, enlargements or alterations of an
existing nonconforming structure shall be permitted; provided, that the
enlargement or alteration does not increase the nonconformance.
   D.   Nonconforming Use Regulations: A nonconforming use shall be subject to
the following regulations:
      1.   If any building or structure is destroyed by any means to an extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost of that portion of the
principal and accessory building which are above the average ground elevation,
such building or structure shall not be rebuilt or reoccupied for any use
except in accordance with the zone regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
      2.   Damage to an extent less than that of subsection D1 of this section
shall be repaired in a manner as nearly conforming as possible.
      3.   Normal maintenance and repairs shall be permitted.
      4.   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged. However, nothing herein
shall be construed as prohibiting additions to any dwelling regardless of the
zone in which such dwellings are located, nor shall anything herein be
construed as prohibiting the construction of a garage as an accessory use to
any dwelling unit regardless of the zone in which the dwelling is located.
Nonconforming uses shall not be changed to any more intensive use other than
one permitted in the zone in which it is located.
      5.   Discontinuation of a nonconforming use for any reason for a period
of more than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be considered abandonment of
that use. Such use shall not be reestablished and any subsequent use of the
land or structure shall conform to the regulations of the zone in which it is
located. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
   E.   Nonconforming Subdivisions: Any subdivision which was recorded prior to
its annexation to the village of Riverwoods or heretofore approved by the
president and board of trustees of the village which would be nonconforming by
reason of lack of lot area as otherwise required by this ordinance shall not be
considered as a nonconforming use for the purpose of permitting construction of
new buildings, additions or alterations to existing buildings or uses otherwise
permitted in the zoning district in which the property is located. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the erection of a building, its
alteration or addition merely because said construction is contemplated on a
lot of record which fails to meet the lot area requirements, provided, however,
that all other use and bulk regulations of the zoning ordinance in effect at
the time permits are requested for such construction, addition or alteration
shall be met. (Ord. 90-7-7, 7-17-1990)
9-2-6-6: ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a use allowed as a permitted or special use within a
particular zoning district may be allowed to occupy the same zoning lot as the
permitted or special use, provided that the following standards are met:
      1.   The accessory use, building or structure shall be compatible with
the principal use and principal building and shall not be established prior to
the establishment of such principal use and principal building.
      2.   The accessory use, building or structure shall be subordinate in
volume, floor area, intensity, extent, and purpose to the principal use and
principal building. When located outdoors (and not in any required yards),
tennis and other playing courts and swimming pools shall be classified as
permitted accessory uses and accessory structures. If playing courts or
swimming pools are enclosed and become detached accessory buildings, then they
are subject to the regulations governing accessory buildings generally in this
title. When any tennis or playing courts or swimming pools are located inside a
principal building or are deemed to be part of a principal building by virtue
of substantial attachment as provided in this title, they shall be classified
as permitted accessory uses within the principal building provided they are
subordinate to the principal use and principal building, meaning, among other
things, that the gross floor area of the accessory use in question does not
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the gross floor area of the ground floor
of the principal building not including any attached garage; provided, however,
that if the story within the principal building containing any such playing
courts or swimming pool shall be considered a basement level for purposes of
this title, then such accessory uses shall be deemed subordinate to the
principal use and principal building without regard to the gross floor area of
such accessory uses. To the extent that any existing, indoor tennis courts,
playing courts or swimming pools as of July 1, 2003, would no longer be deemed
subordinate to the principal building in which they are located, such uses
shall constitute a legal nonconformance and may continue as nonconforming
lawful uses in accordance with the regulations of this title.
      3.   The accessory use, building or structure shall be operated under the
same ownership and on the same zoning lot as the principal use and principal
building, shall not include structural or structural features inconsistent with
the principal use and principal building, and shall not involve the conduct of
any business, profession, or trade unless expressly authorized in this title.
   B.   The keeping and breeding of equine animals, adult dogs or other animals
and the growing and culture of nontoxic plants solely for the enjoyment of the
owner or occupant are permitted accessory uses subject, however, to the
following:
      1.   No equine animals are permitted on lots of less than eighty thousand
(80,000) square feet exclusive of road easements. No more than two (2) equine
animals may be kept on lots of eighty thousand (80,000) square feet or more,
exclusive of road easements, but less than one hundred sixty thousand (160,000)
square feet exclusive of road easements. A maximum of four (4) equine animals
may be kept on lots of one hundred sixty thousand (160,000) square feet or
more, exclusive of road easements.
      2.   No more than three (3) adult canines shall be housed, boarded,
trained or bred on any lot at any time.
      3.   Other animals, such as, but not limited to, rabbits, chickens,
ducks, geese, canaries, may be kept on any lot of one acre or more, provided
the total number of such animals over forty (40) days of age does not exceed
ten (10) at any time.
      4.   The keeping, hiring, trading, selling, nursing, propagation, culture
or feeding of animals and plants for remuneration or other valuable
considerations is prohibited in all districts. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
      5.   The keeping, care or feeding of swine, goats, sheep, snakes,
pigeons, bats, rats, bovine animals, hawks and eagles, and dangerous or game
animals is prohibited in all districts. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; amd. Ord. 13-
06-10, 6-4-2013)
      6.   Bees may be kept on any lot, provided such beekeeping is conducted
in accordance with the standards from time to time set forth in this code to
govern hobby beekeeping. (Ord. 13-06-10, 6-4-2013)
   C.   No accessory building or structure shall:
      1.   Be located nearer to the lot line than is provided by the minimum
setback restrictions for the side, rear and front yard for the principal
building of the use district in which the accessory building or structure is
located, except those that are permitted as obstructions in yards in accordance
with section
9-2-6-8 of this chapter; provided however, that any accessory building used for
the housing, training or the keeping of equine animals shall be located not
less than sixty feet (60') from any lot line. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
      2.   Be located nearer than ten feet (10') to the nearest septic field or
drainfield tile line, nor shall exercise rings, corrals, pastures or other open
areas for training, keeping or use of equine animals be located over any septic
tank or drainfield tile line. All such areas used for equine animals shall be
suitably fenced to contain the equine animal in such a manner as to protect any
adjoining properties from trespass by said equine animal and provide protection
without danger of injury to the equine animal. Fencing to corral equine animals
shall comply with the fence ordinance. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; amd. Ord. 11-
11-26, 11-15-2011)
      3.   Be erected, altered or moved to a location within ten feet (10') of
the principal building (except for an inground swimming pool). No principal
building shall be erected, altered or moved to a location within ten feet (10')
of any detached, accessory building. The distance between a principal and
accessory building shall be measured from eaves to eaves.
   D.   In residential districts, no more than two (2) detached accessory
buildings shall be permitted on any lot.
   E.   The total combined ground area of all detached accessory buildings on a
lot in a residential district (excluding private garages) shall not exceed one-
half of one percent (0.5%) of the lot area plus five hundred (500) square feet.
   F.   No accessory building or structure shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in
height, for a flat roof or mansard roof or eighteen feet (18') in height for
all other roofs, unless otherwise permitted as accessory to authorized special
uses; however, detached, private garages in residential districts without a
flat or mansard roof may be constructed to three-fourths (3/4) of the height of
the principal structure, measured to the roof apex, but in no case shall the
height exceed twenty six feet (26').
   G.   No accessory building containing living quarters shall be erected or
occupied on any lot, unless otherwise permitted as accessory to authorized
special uses. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
   H.   No accessory building or structure constituting a tent or an inflatable
building or structure that incorporates a structural and mechanical system and
employs a high strength fabric or film that achieves its strength, shape, and
stability by pretensioning with internal air pressure, all of which are
intended to provide an enclosed area, shall constitute a permitted accessory
use or accessory building in any zoning district, except: 1) as a temporary
noncommercial sponsored event for which a permit may be issued for up to five
(5) days and 2) tents for housing outdoor events are allowed on country club
property in accordance with the R-4 country club district regulations. Any tent
or other temporary structure erected to house all or part of an event shall be
removed within three (3) days following the completion of the function.
Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, the village board may authorize a
tent as a permitted temporary use on any property for which a special use has
been granted for an animal shelter and training center, provided the village
board makes the following findings: (Ord. 12-8-13, 8-7-2012; amd. Ord. 15-01-
01, 1-6-2015)
      1.   The tent will be erected over a concrete foundation as a temporary
measure before the erection of a permanent building over the foundation; and
      2.   The tent will be used for noncommercial events, but not for the
housing of animals.
If the village board approves a tent based on the foregoing conditions, a
temporary use permit shall be issued which shall be valid for a period of one
year (and which shall authorize the installation, removal and reinstallation of
the tent at any time during such period). Upon approval of the village board,
the permit may be extended for a period of up to one additional year. Upon
expiration of the permit, the owner shall remove the tent whether or not a
permanent building has been commenced, unless a new permit is authorized by the
village board. The issuance of a temporary use permit shall not waive any other
applicable building and life safety codes and ordinances of the village with
regard to the use and occupancy of the tent. (Ord. 12-8-13, 8-7-2012)
9-2-6-7: SPECIAL USES:
To provide for the location of certain uses hereinafter specified which are
deemed desirable for the public welfare and convenience within a given district
or districts, but which might have an adverse effect on nearby properties or
upon the character and future development of the district in which they are
located, a classification of special uses is hereby established. Procedures for
special uses are set forth in section
9-11-9 of this title. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-8: YARDS:
   A.   Permitted Obstruction: For the purposes of this title the following
shall not be considered as obstructing when located in the yards indicated:
Available Yards Accessory Uses
Available Yards                        Accessory Uses
In the front and side yards abutting a Bicycle or pedestrian paths not
street                                 exceeding 8 feet in width
                                       Ornamental light standards and
                                       freestanding yard lights, provided that
In any front yards                     in residential districts such lights
                                       comply with the residential outdoor
                                       lighting ordinance (title 5, chapter 6
                                       of this code)
                                      Signs, as regulated by the Riverwoods
                                       sign ordinance
                                       Accessory private parking area, provided
                                       that open parking spaces are extended
In any side yards                      from the driveway apron serving the
                                       private garage on the lot and are
                                       located at least 20 feet from the side
                                       lot line
                                       Playhouses (not exceeding 15 feet in
                                       height and 100 square feet in area),
                                       children's play equipment, and storage
In any rear yards                      sheds (without a permanent foundation,
                                       not exceeding 81/2 feet in height and
                                       120 square feet in area), but such
                                       structures shall not be closer than 10
                                       feet to the rear lot line
                                       Driveways, subject to the limitations
                                       contained in section
In any front and side yards            9-2-6-11 of this chapter relating to a
                                       required buffer of 20 feet between
                                       driveways and side lot lines
                                       Recreational vehicles, subject to the
In any side and rear yards             provisions of section
                                       9-2-6-9 of this chapter
                                       Accessible ramp or lift at the entrance
                                       (s) to a disabled individual's residence
                                       may, upon application, be classified as
                                       an "accessible required structure" by
                                       the zoning board of appeals upon
                                       verifying the existence of the
                                       disability, in order to provide an
In any required yards                  accessible ramp or lift at the front or
                                       rear entrance(s) to the disabled
                                       individual's residence. Such a ramp or
                                       lift may be provided only while a
                                       disabled individual resides in the
                                       residence and shall be effectively
                                       screened from adjoining residences, if
                                       possible
                                       Arbors, trellises, fountains,
                                      sculptures, plant boxes and similar
                                       ornamental objects
                                      Fences as permitted by the fence
                                       ordinance
                                       A detached accessory building, subject
In any yards abutting a discontinued   to the provisions of section
street                                 9-2-6-6 of this chapter, provided it is
                                       no closer to the lot line than the
                                       minimum side yard in the district
 
(Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; amd. Ord. 06-9-20, 9-19-2006; Ord. 11-11-26, 11-15-
2011; Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
   B.   General:
      1.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for other adjoining structures.
      2.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open
spaces become less than required by this title. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-6-9: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Recreational vehicles shall not be parked outdoors on any property within the
village except as an accessory use for a single-family dwelling in accordance
with the provisions and restrictions of this section.
   A.   Only one recreational vehicle at a time may be parked on the resident's
own parcel. If the recreational vehicle is visible from the front property line
of the parcel, then it shall be parked, except during active loading or
unloading, such that the long axis of the recreational vehicle is nearly
perpendicular to the street to minimize the bulk of the recreational vehicle
seen from the street. Except for the portion of the recreational vehicle
properly parked as just described and still visible from the front property
line, the balance of the recreational vehicle shall be screened with fencing or
landscaping that achieves at least ninety percent (90%) opacity in all seasons.
Screening with landscaping or fencing shall be situated to block the view of
such vehicle in all seasons from the vantage point of first floor rooms, decks
and patios of neighboring residences looking across their side and rear yards.
The height of the fence, when used for screening a recreational vehicle, shall
comply with the provisions of this code regulating such fences. Any fencing
used for screening shall not have a roof or any other permanent structure
covering the top that would convert this screening into a building in violation
of building codes. Every permit application to construct a paved area for
parking a recreational vehicle shall include a screening plan for the
recreational vehicle addressing the requirements of this section.
Notwithstanding the limit of one recreational vehicle per parcel set forth
above, a guest is allowed to park one additional recreational vehicle on the
resident's parcel without meeting the screening requirements, provided that the
resident obtains a temporary parking permit from the police department and
displays same on the vehicle. The number of days during which guest parking is
allowed on a resident's parcel shall not exceed fourteen (14) days in any three
hundred sixty five (365) day period commencing with the date of the issuance of
the permit to the resident.
   B.   A recreational vehicle when parked on a resident's parcel shall not be
parked in the front yards of such parcel but may be parked in a side or rear
yard on a paved driveway or pad located a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
nearest property line.
   C.   A recreational vehicle when parked on a resident's parcel shall be
parked on a paved driveway or pad and shall not have its wheels or hitches
removed, or be affixed to the ground in any way which delays its quick removal.
   D.   A recreational vehicle shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in length.
   E.   No part of any recreational vehicle, which is more than twenty feet
(20') in length, shall be parked or stored closer to the public right of way
than the closest wall of the principal building located on the property where
it is stored, except that for purposes of cleaning, maintenance or other
preparation, a recreational vehicle may be parked on the driveway closer to the
front property line than the closest wall of the principal building for up to
fourteen (14) days (which may or may not be consecutive) during the period of
April 1 through October 30 of each year. No major repairs shall be performed on
any recreational vehicle except within a garage or other building.
   F.   A recreational vehicle when parked on a resident's parcel shall be
owned by the resident or occupant on whose property it is located or shall be a
guest of such resident and shall be so maintained that it does not constitute a
nuisance under this code.
   G.   No recreational vehicles shall contain goods, materials or equipment
other than those items which form a part of the vehicle or which are equipment
accessory to its use.
   H.   No part of any recreational vehicle shall be parked on private property
in such a way as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition. All pointed objects
such as boat propellers and motors protruding from recreational vehicles shall
not extend into or cover any bicycle path, sidewalk, roadway, pavement or other
pedestrianway.
   I.   No recreational vehicle while parked on the resident's parcel shall be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or household purposes. No recreational
vehicle shall be connected to sewer lines, water lines, or electricity, except
that temporary electrical or water connections are permitted for charging
batteries and filling tanks.
   J.   When any recreational vehicle is equipped with liquefied petroleum gas
containers, such containers shall meet the standards of either the interstate
commerce commission or the federal department of transportation or the American
Society Of Mechanical Engineers, as such standards exist or are hereafter
amended. Further, the valves of such liquefied petroleum gas containers must be
closed when such towed trailer or boat is not being readied for immediate use,
and in the event that leakage is detected from such liquefied petroleum gas
containers, immediate corrective action must be taken.
   K.   The ground area adjacent to or under any parked or stored recreational
vehicle must be free of noxious weeds or debris and shall not be used for the
storage of any other material or goods. (Ord. 15-11-20, 11-17-2015)
9-2-6-10: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Garage Sales:
      1.   In any residential district, a temporary use permit shall be
required for a garage sale, and it shall be unlawful for any person to conduct
or allow a garage sale without applying for and obtaining a permit.
      2.   Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than three (3)
consecutive days. Not more than two (2) permits for a home or garage sale shall
be issued for the same zoning lot in one calendar year, January 1 to December
31. The fee for both permits shall be five dollars ($5.00), or such higher
amount as may from time to time be set forth in the annual fee ordinance.
      3.   The term "garage sale" includes all general sales of goods open to
the public, conducted from a residential premises including, but not limited
to, all sales entitled "garage", "lawn", "yard", "attic", "porch", "room",
"backyard", "patio", "flea market", "rummage", "estate", or "moving" sale.
      4.   The garage sale must be incidental to the use of the property for
residential purposes and must be conducted in such a manner as to be compatible
with the residential character of the neighborhood. The merchandise sold must
be limited to household goods and furnishings, which have been in use in the
single- family dwelling located on the premises or which belong to other
village residents, provided such other residents conduct the sale jointly with
the owner of the premises on which the sale is held.
      5.   No garage sales shall operate before eight thirty o'clock (8:30)
A.M. or after sunset on any day. No portion of any garage sale shall take place
on any public or private landscaped area, on any public sidewalk, or on any
public right of way or private street easement.
      6.   Only off site directional signs not to exceed four (4) square feet
in area shall be permitted for the purpose of advertising garage sales. Such
signs shall not be erected in excess of twenty four (24) hours prior to the
commencement of the garage sale and shall be removed within two (2) hours after
the termination of the sale. (Ord. 12-8-13, 8-7-2012)
9-2-6-11: BUFFER OR SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this title, when a road easement or
driveway is provided on a lot, there must be established a buffer or setback
between said road easement or driveway of at least twenty feet (20') from the
side lot line of the nearest adjoining lot, except that the width of the buffer
or setback may be reduced to fifteen feet (15') to accommodate a driveway apron
in that part of the driveway located in the street right of way or street
easement but the buffer or setback shall be restored to twenty feet (20')
beyond the apron. (Ord. 06-1-1, 1-17-2006)
9-2-6-12: WARNING SIRENS:
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this title, a warning siren when
authorized by the board of trustees shall be a permitted use of a site in all
zoning districts and shall not be deemed obstructing when located in any
required yard or in violation of height restrictions, provided that the village
owns the site or holds the right to use the site pursuant to an easement, lease
or license agreement. The board of trustees shall not authorize the
installation of more than two (2) warning sirens in the village. (Ord. 12-6-7,
6-5-2012)
9-2-7: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT:
   A.   Regulations Applying To All Districts:
      1.   All water supply systems and all sewage and waste disposal systems
in any use district shall comply with section
10-1-7 of this code.
      2.   In addition, all water supply systems and sewage and waste disposal
systems not heretofore constructed shall be subject to the approval of the plan
commission and building officer of the village. Such approval shall be withheld
if, in the judgment of said plan commission or said building officer, the
proposed system does not comply with the village regulations regulating same,
does not provide adequate safety for public health, or will not adequately
serve the proposed residence, business, industry or other facility for which it
is intended 1 .
   B.   Regulations Applying To Residential Districts: Individual water
facilities will be approved by the village building officer only upon adequate
proof that wells are free from contamination. The approval of the village
building officer is a requirement in addition to those stated in the
aforementioned subdivision regulations.
   C.   Regulations Applying To Districts Other Than Residential Districts:
      1.   All wells hereafter drilled, dug or constructed in districts other
than residential districts shall be designed and constructed so that no water
is removed from such strata, aquifer, or other underground source as supplies
the water to a majority of residences within the village or within a three (3)
mile radius of the subject well.
      2.   All wells shall be cased in such a manner as to ensure freedom from
contamination and freedom from infiltration from nearby residential water
supply sources.
      3.   Individual septic systems making use of septic tanks and fields
shall be allowed in districts other than residential districts; provided, that
the area in which said septic system is installed shall exceed forty five
thousand (45,000) square feet exclusive of all structures and parking areas.
   D.   Regulations Applying To All Sewage Disposal Units: All septic fields
shall comply with the Lake County health department individual sewage disposal
system rules and regulations and shall further comply with the recommendations
of the United States department of agriculture soil conservation service and
shall further comply with the requirements of any subdivision ordinance of the
village and shall further comply with any separate ordinance enacted or
hereinafter enacted by the corporate authorities of the village regulating
private sewage disposal systems. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See sewer and water sections in title 7, chapter 2, articles A through C
  of this code.
9-2-8: SCREENING EASEMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Screening easements shall be required in the following
cases:
      1.   Where any use other than residential abuts the residential district.
      2.   Where any use other than residential abuts a private or public road
or alley contiguous to a residential district. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord.
86-11-22, 11-18-1986)
   B.   Planting Specifications:
      1.   All planting screens shall consist of evergreens.
      2.   Planting screen easements shall have a width of not less than twenty
feet (20').
      3.   Plantings shall be randomly placed so that an effective visual
screen of at least eight feet (8') in height is provided. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-2-9: GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATIONS:
   VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.gif]
   MINIMUM LOT STANDARDS
Residential District 1-R R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-4
Residential District                 1-R    R-1    R-1A   R-2    R-3     R-4
Minimum lot area, square feet        42,000 42,000 60,000 80,000 200,000 43,560
Minimum frontage, interior lot, feet 75     75     120    150    300     70
Minimum width at building line, feet 105    -      -      -      -       -
Minimum frontage, corner lot, feet   95     75     120    150    300     70
Minimum width at building line, feet 125    -      -      -      -       -
Average lot width, feet              -      150    150    150    150     150
Minimum front yard, feet             50     50     55     60     100     50
Minimum side yard, interior, feet    30     30     35     40     40      30
Minimum side yard, adjacent to       50     50     55     60     100     45
street, feet
Minimum rear yard, feet              40     40     45     50     100     40
 
(Ord. 95-9-11, 9-19-1995)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-3-1: Creation Of Use Districts
9-3-2: Official Zoning Map
9-3-3: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
9-3-4: Alternative Zoning
9-3-1: CREATION OF USE DISTRICTS:
The following use districts are hereby created and established: (Ord. 190, 3-
19-1973)
   1-R 42,000 square feet (inclusive of road easements) single- family
residential district
   R-1 42,000 square feet single-family residential district
   R-1A 60,000 square feet single-family residential district
   R-2 80,000 square feet single-family residential district
   R-3 200,000 square feet single-family residential district
   R-4 Golf course and country club residential district
   B-1 Neighborhood business district
   Mixed use planned unit developments in the B-1 neighborhood business
district
   O and R1 office and research district one
   O and R/C office and research compatible district
   Transitional business overlay district
   B-2 Business compatible district
   Wireless telecommunications overlay district
   P-1 Public lands district
   P-2 Wildlife preserves district
   SL Sanitary landfill district
   SS Automobile service stations district
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord. 80-5-7, 5-27-1980; Ord. 86-11-22, 11-18-1986;
Ord. 86-11-23, 11-18-1986; Ord. 97-12-22, 12-16-1997; Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998;
Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999; Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000; Ord. 05-2-2, 2-1-2005; Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-3-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The village shall cause to be printed by March 31 of each year, a map clearly
showing existing zoning uses, divisions and restrictions, regulations and
classifications of the village. Said map, together with everything shown
thereon and all amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of this chapter as
though fully set forth and described herein. The said map shall be filed with
the office of the village clerk, and shall be available for public reference.
If there are no changes in the map from year to year, no new map need be
published. If changes do occur, they shall be reflected in the new and
corrected map published by March 31 following the changes. Any person desiring
a copy of such map, which shall be the official zoning map, shall pay the sum
of ten dollars ($10.00) for each copy thereof to the village. The boundaries of
the wireless telecommunications overlay district shall be as shown on an
overlay district appendix to the official zoning map. Such overlay district
appendix shall be a part of the official zoning map. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd.
Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999)
9-3-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any additions to the incorporated area of the village shall be automatically
classified according to the classification shown on the master plan of the
village. Said master plan, together with everything shown thereon and all
amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth and described herein. The said master plan shall be filed with the office
of the village clerk and shall be available for public reference. If changes
occur in the said master plan, they shall be reflected in the new and corrected
plan published by March 31 following the changes. If there are no new changes
in the plan from year to year, no new plan need be published. Any person
desiring a copy of such master plan, which shall be the official master plan,
shall pay the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each copy thereof to the village,
and such fees collected shall be used to defray the cost of publication. (Ord.
190, 3-19-1973)
9-3-4: ALTERNATIVE ZONING:
Where any land area is shown on either the official zoning map or the master
plan of the village to have two (2) or more use district designations, they
shall be interpreted as alternative uses permissible for the subject land uses
and not as cumulative permissible uses. The first listed shall be deemed the
preferred use. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Home Occupations
9-4-2: Prohibited Buildings And Structures
9-4-3: Religious Institutions
9-4-4: Outside Parking In Residential Areas
9-4-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Subject to the restrictions set forth in this section, certain home occupations
are permitted in a dwelling unit provided such use is incidental and secondary
to the residential occupancy thereof by the primary residents. The rental use
of a dwelling unit by primary residents is a permitted principal use in the
residential districts and not a home occupation use. The intent of this section
is to provide peace, quiet and domestic tranquility in all residential
neighborhoods within the village, to preserve the essential residential
character of the dwelling unit and surrounding neighborhoods and to prevent
nuisances, fire hazards, excessive noise, light and traffic, and other effects
that may result from business or commercial uses being conducted in residential
districts.
   A.   Home occupations shall be conducted only by the primary residents of a
household. Private tutoring or other types of instruction to a group of persons
not to exceed five (5) in the aggregate shall be permitted. Home occupations
shall not be conducted as businesses openly welcoming the public at the
property, and in all cases home occupations shall be conducted in a manner not
to constitute a nuisance or hazard to neighboring persons or property.
   B.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit, as a permitted home occupation,
shall have the right to (i) maintain a personal professional library, (ii) keep
personal business records or accounts therein, (iii) handle personal business
or professional calls or correspondence therefrom, or (iv) designate the
premises as the registered office of the owner’s business.
   C.   Home stay rental (satisfying the minimum 4-week occupancy term) shall
be a permitted home occupation, provided it is conducted in compliance with the
following restrictions and other appliable provisions of this code:
      1.   Home stay rental shall not be the principal use of a dwelling unit.
      2.   The use of accessory buildings, swimming pools, playing courts or
other amenities of the dwelling unit solely by the persons authorized to occupy
the home as a home stay rental shall be considered part of the home stay rental
use.
      3.   All vehicles used by occupiers or guests of the home stay rental
must be parked overnight on improved surfaces on the property and may not be
parked on any street or right-of-way.
      4.   All garbage and refuse must be stored inside, and may not be placed
outdoors on the property, except on the designated day for garbage and refuse
collection.
   D.   Without limiting other provisions of this section, permitted home
occupations shall not include the following uses, which are deemed unlawful
business uses in the residential districts:
      1.   Any wholesale or retail business, unless conducted entirely by mail
or telephone and does not involve in-person sale, receipt or delivery of
merchandise on the premises.
      2.   Any manufacturing business.
      3.   A service establishment of any kind operating on or from the
premises.
      4.   A medical clinic or hospital.
      5.   A barbershop or beauty shop.
      6.   A stable or dog kennel open to the public.
      7.   A restaurant.
      8.   Veterinary or animal hospital.
      9.   The repair, bodywork or painting of any automobile, trailer, truck
or other vehicle when such activity is conducted as a business.
      10.   Any activity that produces noxious matter, or is a public hazard or
nuisance.
      11.   Any rental use of a dwelling unit, other than by the primary
residents thereof, if such rental use does not constitute a home stay rental;
provided that the temporary use of a dwelling unit by the selling party
pursuant to a post-closing agreement executed in conjunction with a contract to
sell the dwelling unit shall be allowed.
      12.   Any rental use of accessory buildings, swimming pools, playing
courts or other amenities of a dwelling unit by other than the primary
residents, unless such rental accessory use is by the occupants of the home
stay rental.
   E.   The following operational restrictions shall apply to permitted home
occupations.
      1.   Permitted home occupations shall be conducted within the dwelling
unit or within an accessory building on the property, provided this restriction
shall not bar the accessory use of swimming pools, playing courts or other
amenities of the dwelling unit when the use thereof is by the occupants of the
home stay rental.
      2.   There shall be no direct retail sales of merchandise, other than by
personal invitation or appointment.
      3.   All storage of goods, materials, products or merchandise used or
sold in conjunction with a home occupation shall be wholly within the principal
building or accessory building containing the home occupation. There shall be
no exterior storage of equipment or materials used in such home occupations.
      4.   Permitted home occupations shall not include the use of any
mechanical equipment except that which is usual for purely domestic or hobby
purposes or which does not produce noise, electrical or magnetic interference,
vibration, heat, glare, emissions, odor, intense light, or radiation outside
the principal dwelling that is greater or more frequent than that of typical
equipment used in connection with residential occupancy.
      5.   Permitted home occupations shall not include exterior display or
exterior signs except as are permitted by the sign regulations for residence
districts.
      6.   The repair, bodywork or painting of any automobile, trailer, truck
or other vehicle (other than for operable vehicles privately owned by and
registered in the name of the owner of the property on which said vehicles are
located) shall be considered a business use and is not allowed in any
residential district. Parking of commercial vehicles outside of a garage,
whether or not used in a permitted home occupation, shall be subject to the
provisions of section
9-4-4  of this chapter. (Ord. 23-08-10, 8-1-2023)
9-4-2: PROHIBITED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
The following types of buildings are prohibited in all districts:
   A.   Trailers, mobile homes or temporary residential structures, except
recreational vehicles which may be stored in accordance with the provisions of
this title.
   B.   Inflatable buildings or structures that incorporate a structural and
mechanical system and employ a high strength fabric or film that achieves its
strength, shape, and stability by pretensioning with internal air pressure.
   C.   Self-supporting, arch steel buildings that use prefabricated arch sheet
steel panels and similar designs of "quonset" style buildings whose skin is
made of steel sheathing or panels placed over a steel frame. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-
2-2003)
9-4-3: RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS:
Religious institutions may be constructed within those zoning districts in
which they are listed as special uses, subject to the general requirements for
the granting of special uses as required by this title and to the regulations
generally applicable within the zoning district where located, except as
modified by the following specific regulations:
   A.   The minimum site area for a religious institution shall be five (5)
acres. Sites shall be single or multiple lots controlled for development by a
single interest. No site shall be subdivided unless the subdivision fully
complies with the subdivision control ordinance (title 10 of this Code) and all
other applicable Village Code provisions.
   B.   No religious institution shall be located in any residential zoning
district unless the site has a minimum of one hundred fifty feet (150') of
frontage on Lake-Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue, Deerfield Road, Riverwoods Road,
Duffy Road or Saunders Road. Access to any religious institution shall be
limited to Lake-Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue, Deerfield Road, Riverwoods Road,
Duffy Road or Saunders Road.
   C.   The impervious surface ratio, as applied to religious institutions, is
the area covered by buildings, parking, drives, aisles, loading areas, patios
or other paved areas, divided by the site area in accordance with the following
formula:
 
ISR = Ab + Ap + Al + Ao
                  S
 
 
Where:
ISR = Impervious surface ratio.
Ab  = Building area, the area covered by buildings from the maximum outside
      dimensions.
Ap  = Parking areas, all paved areas used for parking or access to those areas.
Al  = Loading areas, all paved areas used for loading or access to those areas.
Ao  = Other areas, all other paved areas, including patios, walks, entryways,
      etc.
S   = Site area, the actual area of the site, minus the existing road right-of-
      ways and ingress and egress easements.
 
The maximum ISR for any site in a residential zoning district shall be 0.25.
The maximum ISR for any site in a nonresidential zoning district shall be
governed by the regulations of the applicable district.
   D.   All buildings for a religious institution shall have a setback of one
hundred feet (100') from the lot lines. In residential districts, the holding
of concerts, assemblies, services or other events outdoors on the site shall be
limited to six (6) events per calendar year, and, subject to the foregoing
limited exception, all principal and accessory uses (other than parking) in a
residential district shall be conducted inside the buildings on the site. (Ord.
03-6-9, 6-3-2003)
   E.   The exterior of all sites in any residential district in which a
religious institution is to be located shall have a sixty foot (60') planted
buffer yard. There shall be no parking or drives permitted in buffer yards, but
parking shall be allowed in the remaining portions of the required yards, if
allowed by the terms of the site development plan approved for the site. Access
roads may cross the buffer yards when required for access, but shall be
oriented to minimize the areas consumed by such crossings. In order to be
compatible with or promote the wooded character of the Village, buffer yards
shall be landscaped to promote the establishment and conservation of natural
wooded areas, so that eighty percent (80%) of their area is in natural
plantings, as recommended by the Village Forester. No more than twenty percent
(20%) of the total area may be in water features, unless waived by the Village
Engineer and approved by the Village Board as a condition of the special use.
Buffer yards shall be planted with canopy trees, understory trees and shrubs
interbedded to form a planting arrangement with all three (3) heights of plant
material intermixed. The ground cover may be bark or wood chips, natural
unmowed grasses, flowers or ground covers, as approved by the Village Forester.
Tree reforestation plans shall be prepared when required under the Village's
tree and woodland protection ordinance. (Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003; amd. Ord. 18-
03-05, 3-6-2018)
   F.   All parking areas shall comply with the requirements of section
10-5-12 of this Code and other applicable provisions of chapter 10 of this
title; provided, that there shall be provided adequate space for motor vehicle
parking based on a minimum of one space for every three (3) seats (whether
fixed seats or bench seats, and generally based on the maximum seating capacity
for persons intended to gather for assembly) while also providing parking
spaces for accessory uses; however, if approved as part of the site development
plan for the site, parking for principal and accessory uses may be shared. If
recommended as a condition of the special use, the Village Board may allow
twenty percent (20%) of the parking spaces to remain unimproved in a landscaped
preserve until such time as the Village Board determines that they should be
constructed.
   G.   An application for a special use permit for a religious institution
shall require submission of a site development plan, landscape plan, traffic
analysis and other related documents, as the Plan Commission or the Village
Board shall require.
   H.   No application for a special use permit for a religious institution
shall be approved unless the Village Board, in addition to making the required
findings under section
9-11-9 of this title, shall find that the proposal substantially adheres to the
following design criteria:
      1.   The site will satisfy the minimum required frontage and limited
access requirements set forth in this section. (Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003)
      2.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site will be
preserved and incorporated into the development wherever possible, including
compliance with the buffer yard requirements set forth in this section and the
terms and conditions of the tree and woodland protection ordinance. (Ord. 03-6-
9, 6-3-2003; amd. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
      3.   The buildings on the site will be oriented in a manner that creates
harmonious development and will minimize the visual impact on any adjacent
areas, particularly residential areas.
      4.   Stormwater detention facilities will comply with the requirements of
title 11, chapter 1, "Village Of Riverwoods Watershed Development Ordinance",
of this Code and be designed as a visual amenity for the project, wherever
possible.
      5.   The exterior elevations of the buildings will require the use of
higher grade finishes that demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development throughout the entire site; for sites in a residential district,
the exterior elevations of the buildings will incorporate residential design
features in order that the buildings will harmonize with the appearance and
general character of the residential area. (Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003)
      6.   Lighting standards and signage on the site will conform to the
requirements of the residential outdoor lighting ordinance (title 5, chapter 6
of this Code). (Ord. 06-9-20, 9-19-2006)
9-4-4: OUTSIDE PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
Parking or storing of any commercial vehicle in any residential district, other
than in accordance with the restrictions of this section, for a period longer
than to load or unload or to render a service, shall be considered a business
use and not a residential use, and shall not be allowed at any single-family
dwelling, except as follows:
   A.   One panel or cargo van that is privately owned and registered to the
owner of the premises (or to the owner's employer) and having a gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code) of ten thousand
(10,000) pounds or less may be parked upon a driveway serving a single- family
dwelling and need not be parked within a completely enclosed garage, provided
that such vehicle does not display lettering or logos or have removable
equipment or merchandise, in either case, that is visible beyond the property
line.
   B.   One commercial vehicle that is privately owned and registered to the
owner of the premises and that does not satisfy the exception in subsection A
of this section, may be parked within a completely enclosed garage; provided,
however, such vehicle need not be enclosed and may be parked upon the driveway
serving a single-family dwelling, if the commercial vehicle is screened with
fencing or landscaping that achieves at least ninety percent (90%) opacity in
all seasons. Screening with landscaping or fencing shall be situated to block
the view of such vehicle in all seasons from the vantage point of first floor
rooms, decks and patios of neighboring residences looking across their side and
rear yards. The height of the fence, when used for screening a commercial
vehicle, shall comply with the provisions of this Code regulating such fences.
Any fencing used for screening shall not have a roof or any other permanent
structure covering the top that would convert this screening into a building in
violation of building codes.
   C.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, no commercial
vehicle shall be parked or stored on a single- family property if its gross
vehicle weight rating (GVWR) exceeds fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds. (Ord.
15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
ARTICLE A. 1-R 42,000 SQUARE FEET (INCLUSIVE OF ROAD EASEMENTS) SINGLE-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Purpose
9-4A-2: Permitted Uses
9-4A-3: Special Uses
9-4A-4: Lot Area Requirements
9-4A-5: Building Height
9-4A-6: Yard Requirements
9-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The zoning district created by this article is intended to and shall apply and
be applicable only to contiguous lands of fifty (50) acres or more. (Ord. 80-5-
7, 5-27-1980)
9-4A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses as regulated by this title.
Community Residence
Home occupations as permitted by this title.
Signs as permitted by the Riverwoods sign ordinance (title 12 of this code).
Single-family detached dwellings.
Temporary signs and structures as required for construction purposes for a
period not to exceed such construction, but in no event for more than one year.
(Ord. 80-5-7, 5-27-1980; amd. Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-2021)
9-4A-3: SPECIAL USES:
   Parks, recreation and forest areas or wildlife preserves where such are
owned by the village for the sole benefit of all its residents.
   Transitional Residence, pursuant to the provisions of section
9-11-14 of this title.
   Utility and public uses where specifically regulated by franchise granted to
or contract with the particular utility or public service by the village board.
(Ord. 80-5-7, 5-27-1980; amd. Ord. 86-11-22, 11-18-1986; Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-
2021; Ord. 24-09-13, 9-3-2024)
9-4A-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall be not less than forty two thousand (42,000)
square feet of lot area per dwelling unit. Said lot area may include the land
lying within the right of way of any streets, roads and private easements for
ingress and egress lying adjacent to said lot.
   B.   Floor Areas: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable ground
floor area of not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than nine
hundred (900) square feet of habitable ground floor area nor less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of total habitable floor area.
   C.   Frontage:
      1.   No interior lot shall have a frontage less than seventy five feet
(75') at the front lot line, nor one hundred five feet (105') at the front
building line.
      2.   No corner lot shall have a frontage less than ninety five feet (95')
at the front lot line, nor one hundred twenty five feet (125') at the front
building line.
   D.   Lot Coverage:
      1.   No lot shall have a building coverage greater than fifteen percent
(15%) of the lot area for the principal building and any attached accessory use
or building.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings are not permitted. (Ord. 80-5-7, 5-27-
1980)
9-4A-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') above grade level.
(Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
9-4A-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required front yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall not be less than thirty feet (30') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on each street
side of such lot, except that the buildable width of the lot shall not be
reduced to less than forty five feet (45'). In order to maintain a buildable
width of lot no less than forty five feet (45'), the two (2) side yards shall
be reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or
other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required side
yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than forty
feet (40'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming pool,
tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall be
located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
ARTICLE B. R-1 42,000 SQUARE FEET SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Permitted Uses
9-4B-2: Special Uses
9-4B-3: Lot Area Requirements
9-4B-4: Building Height
9-4B-5: Yard Requirements
9-4B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses as regulated by this title.
Community residence.
Home occupations as permitted by this title.
Signs as permitted by the Riverwoods sign ordinance (title 12 of this code).
Single-family detached dwellings.
Temporary signs and structures as required for construction purposes for a
period not to exceed such construction, but in no event for more than one year.
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003; Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-2021)
9-4B-2: SPECIAL USES:
Animal shelter, training center and clinic.
Medical or other single purpose office building, not used as a single-family
residence, where the lot is abutting a nonresidential zoning district and one
or more of the following major roads: Lake Cook Road, Milwaukee Road or
Saunders Road (south of Deerfield Road).
Nursing, convalescent and rehabilitation facilities authorized by special use
prior to January 1, 1985, and "social service centers" authorized by special
use pursuant to the provisions of section
9-11-13 of this title.
Parks, recreation and forest areas or wildlife preserves where such are owned
by the village for the sole benefit of all its residents.
Planned unit developments pursuant to the provisions of section
9-11-12 of this title.
Religious institutions.
Transitional Residence, pursuant to the provisions of section
9-11-14 of this title.
Utility and public uses where specifically regulated by franchise granted to or
contract with the particular utility or public service by the village board.
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord. 84-3-17, 3-19-1984; Ord. 85-11-52, 11-19-1985;
Ord. 93-1-3, 1-19-1993; Ord. 96-5-7, 5-21-1996; Ord. 98-12-41, 12-15-1998; Ord.
03-6-9, 6-3-2003; Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-2021)
9-4B-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall be not less than forty two thousand (42,000)
square feet of lot area per dwelling unit. Said lot area shall exclude the land
lying within the right of way of any streets, roads and private easements for
ingress and egress lying adjacent to said lot.
   B.   Floor Areas: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable ground
floor area of not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than nine
hundred (900) square feet of habitable ground floor area nor less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of total habitable floor area.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have a frontage of less than seventy five feet
(75') nor an average lot width of less than one hundred fifty feet (150').
(Ord. 86-9-20, 9-16-1986)
9-4B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') above grade level.
(Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
9-4B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required front yard, except as permitted in section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall be not less than thirty feet (30') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on each street
side of such lot, except that the buildable width of the lot shall not be
reduced to less than forty five feet (45'). In order to maintain a buildable
width of lot no less than forty five feet (45'), the two (2) side yards shall
be reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or
other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required side
yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than forty
feet (40'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming pool,
tennis court, deck, patio or accessory building or structure shall be located
in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
ARTICLE C. R-1A 60,000 SQUARE FEET SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Permitted Uses
9-4C-2: Special Uses
9-4C-3: Lot Area Requirements
9-4C-4: Building Height
9-4C-5: Yard Requirements
9-4C-1: PERMITTED USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4C-2: SPECIAL USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4C-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall be not less than sixty thousand (60,000) square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit. Said lot area shall exclude the land lying
within the right of way of any streets, roads and private easements for ingress
and egress lying adjacent to said lot.
   B.   Floor Areas: As in R-1 districts.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have a frontage of less than one hundred twenty
feet (120') nor an average lot width of less than one hundred fifty feet
(150'). (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4C-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4C-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than fifty
five feet (55') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No
swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or
structure shall be located in the required front yard, except as permitted by
section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall not be less than thirty five feet (35') in width, measured perpendicular
to each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on each
street side of such lot, except that the buildable width of the lot shall not
be reduced to less than fifty feet (50'). In order to maintain a buildable
width of lot no less than fifty feet (50'), the two (2) side yards shall be
reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other
accessory building or structure shall be located in the required side yard,
except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than forty
five feet (45'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming pool,
tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall be
located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
ARTICLE D. R-2 80,000 SQUARE FEET SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4D-1: Permitted Uses
9-4D-2: Special Uses
9-4D-3: Lot Area Requirements
9-4D-4: Building Height
9-4D-5: Yard Requirements
9-4D-1: PERMITTED USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4D-2: SPECIAL USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4D-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall be not less than eighty thousand (80,000) square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit. Said lot area shall exclude the land lying
within the right of way of any streets, roads and private easements for ingress
and egress lying adjacent to said lot.
   B.   Floor Areas: As in R-1 districts.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have a frontage of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') nor an average lot width of less than one hundred fifty feet
(150'). (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4D-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4D-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than sixty
feet (60') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required front yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall not be less than forty feet (40') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on each street
side of such lot, except that the buildable width of the lot shall not be
reduced to less than fifty five feet (55'). In order to maintain a buildable
width of lot no less than fifty five feet (55'), the two (2) side yards shall
be reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or
other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required side
yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than fifty
feet (50'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming pool,
tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall be
located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
ARTICLE E. R-3 200,000 SQUARE FEET SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4E-1: Permitted Uses
9-4E-2: Special Uses
9-4E-3: Lot Area Requirements
9-4E-4: Building Height
9-4E-5: Yard Requirements
9-4E-6: Grade Restrictions
9-4E-1: PERMITTED USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4E-2: SPECIAL USES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4E-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall be not less than two hundred thousand (200,000)
square feet of lot area per dwelling unit, provided that at least eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet of said tract is three feet (3') above the high
water mark to provide for living space, septic fields and an acceptable well.
   B.   Floor Areas: As in R-1 districts.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have less than three hundred feet (300') of
frontage nor an average lot width of less than one hundred fifty feet (150').
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4E-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4E-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than one
hundred feet (100') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line,
except where it is impossible to locate eighty thousand (80,000) square feet
above the floodplain without deviations. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck,
patio or other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required
front yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall not be less than forty feet (40') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line, except where it is impossible to locate eighty thousand
(80,000) square feet above the floodplain without deviations. On a corner lot
there shall be a front yard on each street side of such lot, except that the
buildable width of the lot shall not be reduced to less than sixty five feet
(65'), the two (2) side yards shall be reduced in width equally. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required side yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than one
hundred feet (100'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
9-4E-6: GRADE RESTRICTIONS:
No building or structure other than a fence shall be erected on or moved to a
lot or tract of land in this district unless the ground upon which said
building or structure is to be erected and the ten feet (10') beyond the limits
of said building or structure is raised to such level that the main floor of
said building or structure shall be not less than three feet (3') above the
high water level. No basement floor or other floor shall be constructed below
or at lower elevation than the main floor. The "high water level or mark" shall
be defined as six hundred forty two feet (642') above mean sea level, 1929
adjustment. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
ARTICLE F. R-4 GOLF COURSE AND COUNTRY CLUB RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4F-1: Definitions
9-4F-1-1: Permitted Uses
9-4F-1-2: Special Uses
9-4F-2: Lot Area Requirements For Country Club Residences
9-4F-3: Building Height For Country Club Residences
9-4F-4: Yard Requirements For Country Club Residences
9-4F-5: General Provisions
9-4F-5-1: Change Of Zone Classification
9-4F-5-2: Licenses
9-4F-5-3: Bond Requirements
9-4F-5-4: Structure Requirements
9-4F-5-5: Regulations For Country Clubs
9-4F-5-6: Requirements For A Park District Golf Course Special Use
9-4F-5-7: Special Event Licenses
9-4F-1: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF SHELTER: An accessory building located on a golf course and intended to
provide temporary shelter for players during play on a golf course. A golf
shelter does not include kitchen or residential facilities of any kind.
PARK DISTRICT GOLF COURSE: A golf course (including practice putting greens and
driving ranges), clubhouse, golf pro shop and related facilities operated by an
Illinois park district organized under the park district code of the state of
Illinois (or any successor statute) for the benefit of park district residents
and nonresidents. (Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998)
9-4F-1-1: PERMITTED USES:
Country club.
Country club residences. (Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998)
9-4F-1-2: SPECIAL USES:
Golf shelters, including sanitary facilities therein if served by sewers, as an
accessory use for a country club or park district golf course.
Park district golf course.
Parks, recreation, stormwater control facilities, forest areas or wildlife
preserves where such are owned by the village (or controlled by the village
pursuant to a conservation easement) for the sole benefit of all of the
village's residents.
Religious institutions.
Utility and public uses where specifically regulated by franchise granted to or
contract with the particular utility or public service by the village board.
(Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998; amd. Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003)
9-4F-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTRY CLUB RESIDENCES:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less than forty three
thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet, exclusive of roads and
highways.
   B.   Floor Areas: As in R-1 districts.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have a frontage of less than seventy feet (70')
nor an average width of less than one hundred fifty feet (150').
   D.   Lot Coverage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of
the lot may be covered by main buildings, structures or accessory buildings.
   E.   Easements: Easements on the lots located in the R-4 country club
residential district may be executed for the use and benefit of the adjacent R-
4 country club district or the owners thereof, but said easements shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total area of each lot. (Ord. 190, 3-19-
1973)
9-4F-3: BUILDING HEIGHT FOR COUNTRY CLUB RESIDENCES:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4F-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTRY CLUB RESIDENCES:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required front yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall not be less than thirty feet (30') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a side yard of not less than
forty five feet (45') on the side adjacent to any street which intersects the
street on which the structure maintains frontage. The buildable width of a lot
shall not be reduced to less than forty five feet (45'). In order to maintain a
buildable width of lot no less than forty five feet (45'), the two (2) side
yards shall be reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck,
patio or other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required
side yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than forty
feet (40'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming pool,
tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall be
located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 03-7-11, 7-2-2003)
9-4F-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9-4F-5-1: CHANGE OF ZONE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Territory may be rezoned to this classification by application to
rezone territory within this village or by annexation of territory contiguous
to the village under this classification. In any event, said lands shall be
used only for country clubs, park district golf courses and country club
residences. Before any application to rezone territory to this classification
shall be heard, or before any annexation of territory under this classification
shall be ordained, there shall be submitted to the village authorities an
accurate plat indicating clearly the area set forth for use as country club,
park district golf course and country club residences, all accessory structures
and parking, the front, rear and side yards and distance from adjacent lots
zoned for single-family use and other relevant dimensions as may be prescribed
by the village board.
   B.   Before any application to rezone territory to this classification shall
be approved, or before any territory shall be annexed to the village under this
classification, the applicant or petitioner shall agree to execute such
restrictions, conditions and covenants running with the land, as may be
required by the village authorities and as may be related to the health,
safety, morals and general welfare. The corporate authorities of the village
may require that a golf course, clubhouse and recreational facilities, as set
forth in the plat submitted to the village authorities, be completed before
permits for the building of residences are issued. In the event the area set
forth in the plat or map submitted to the village for use as a country club or
park district golf course is not so used, or if such use is abandoned, the
corporate authorities of the village may reclassify the territory to
residential use, but such reclassification shall not be less than that of two
(2) acre minimum one-family residential use. (Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998)
9-4F-5-2: LICENSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a country club without a valid license
issued by the village. Such license shall only be issued upon proper
application and shall remain valid only so long as the ordinances and
regulations of the village pertaining thereto are complied with. Such license
shall be for the operation of a "country club" as defined in this code and
subject to the regulations set forth in section
9-4F-5-5 of this article, and for a definite period of time not to exceed one
year.
   B.   Thirty (30) days prior to the issuance or renewal of any license
authorized under this chapter, said licensee shall first deliver to the village
president a complete application as set forth herein. Applications for such
license shall be made to the village president in writing, signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent of a business entity,
verified by oath or affidavit, and contain the following information and
statements:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall contain the
individual's name, residential address, and telephone number. If the applicant
is a partnership or other noncorporate business entity, the application shall
contain the name and residential address of each partner, manager or member
thereof, a telephone number for the principal contact person, and the
registered agent of such entity. If the applicant is a corporation or limited
liability company, the application shall contain the name and residential
address of each principal officer, a telephone number for the principal contact
person, and the registered agent of said corporation or limited liability
company. If the applicant is any business entity, said applicant shall notify
the village clerk, in writing, by certified mail, at any time there is a change
in or of any officers, directors, general partners, managers or members
thereof, as applicable. Such notice shall include a statement of qualification
of eligibility to receive a license of all officers, directors, partners,
managers or members, as hereinafter defined. Failure to make such notice shall
subject said applicant to suspension or revocation of any current license or
refusal to renew same. Said application shall also include the names and
addresses of all persons or entities having more than a five percent (5%)
interest in the ownership of the country club.
Any license issued to a business entity shall terminate if more than five
percent (5%) of the corporate stock, partnership or membership interests, as
applicable, in such entity shall be transferred and any application for renewal
of the license in the name of the entity subsequent to such transfer shall be
considered and treated as a new application and the appropriate and applicable
fee shall be required with the application.
If the applicant is a business entity, the application shall also contain
organizational documents for the entity showing the date of incorporation or
formation, the objects for which it was organized and similar documents, when
requested by the village clerk, for any individual or entity that owns more
than five percent (5%) of the applicant.
      2.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license. A site plan or survey shall be
furnished showing the location of parking areas and the number of available
parking spaces.
      3.   A statement whether applicant has made a similar application for a
similar license on premises other than described in the application, and the
disposition of such application.
      4.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this title, laws of this state or the ordinances of the village.
      5.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
      6.   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, corporation or limited liability company, that the same
shall be signed and sworn to by person(s) who have been duly authorized to sign
and deliver the application on behalf of the applicant.
      7.   Such application shall be accompanied by the license fee for this
chapter as required by this code and no license shall be issued without payment
of the required fee. Each application shall include such information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of the
license applied for. (Ord. 15-01-01, 1-6-2015)
   C.   Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, all licenses issued
herein shall become null and void unless all license fees due under this
article shall be paid in full upon application for issuance or renewal of said
license.
   D.   No such license shall be issued under this section to:
      1.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
      5.   A person whose license issued under this section has been revoked
for cause.
      6.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be entitled to such license upon a first
application.
      7.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license.
      8.   A corporation, if an officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship.
      9.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent is otherwise qualified or possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee.
      10.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state felony law, or shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer
charges for any such violation.
      11.   A person holding a lease for the premises for which a license is
sought unless the owner of said premises shall also qualify to obtain a
license.
   E.   All licenses issued by the village shall state thereon the name of the
licensee and the address and description of the premises for which it is
granted, and the date of its issuance and expiration. Such license shall be
signed by the village president. Each licensee shall cause his license issued
under the provisions hereof to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises. A license shall be purely a
personal privilege good for the license period and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to be encumbered or hypothecated. The renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
village board from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the
village.
   F.   In case a licensee shall sell or dispose of his business during the
license period he may waive his license rights and privileges in writing to the
village board in favor of the successor of his business who in turn shall make
application for a new license and pay the fee as hereinbefore described.
The corporate authorities of the village shall by separate resolution establish
the fees and charges for said license, and may appoint a commission which shall
have general supervisory review over country clubs and within the village and
over all matters ancillary to the management and operation of same, including
the right to periodic inspection. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4F-5-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The corporate authorities may, as a condition precedent or subsequent to
classification under this chapter, require a bond with sufficient surety
thereon in the sum of not less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
which shall for a period of not less than ten (10) years indemnify the village
from any expenses or fees, legal or otherwise, or from payment of any judgment
or costs, in any way connected with litigation wherein the village is defendant
which may arise out of annexation of territory under this classification,
rezoning of territory under this classification, approval of plat or plats
submitted, or issuance of any licenses or permits in connection therewith.
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-4F-5-4: STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All structures accessory to any nonresidential structures or use are to be
effectively screened, which screening shall consist of evergreens so placed
that there will be an effective visual screen of the entire structure.
   A.   Location Of Buildings Used As Main Clubhouse Structures For Country
Clubs: No building used for a main clubhouse structure shall be erected or
located closer than three hundred feet (300') to property platted or zoned for
single-family use, nor closer than two hundred feet (200') to the right of way
of any public or private street, road or highway. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
   B.   Location Of Accessory Buildings, Structures And Tents: No building,
structure, including hard surfaced playing court, or tent, accessory to the use
of a country club shall be erected or located farther than two hundred feet
(200') from the main clubhouse structure, nor closer than five hundred feet
(500') to property platted or zoned for single-family residential uses, nor any
closer than two hundred feet (200') to the right of way of any public or
private street, road or highway.
   C.   Exceptions For Permitted Locations: Notwithstanding subsection B of
this section, the following exceptions shall apply:
      1.   A country club may erect one accessory building which is no farther
than two hundred feet (200') from the main clubhouse structure, no closer than
one hundred fifty feet (150') to property platted or zoned for single-family
residential uses and no closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') to the right
of way of any public or private street, road or highway, provided all adjacent
property owners within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed accessory
building consent to the erection of such building.
      2.   A country club may erect one or more tents to be used by the country
club for housing outdoor events, in locations other than as authorized in
subsection B of this section, when permitted as special use.
      3.   Golf shelters including sanitary facilities which are served by
sewers when permitted as a special use may be located at any location on the
country club site.
   D.   Special Use On Golf Course Land: An application for a special use to
permit the location of tents or golf shelters on the golf course land of the
country club shall satisfy the standards for special uses generally in this
title. However, additional standards shall include the care with which the
country club proposes to preserve fairway views and minimize any noise from
activities that would injure the value of property in the neighborhood. The
terms of the special use permit may specify that a particular location is
authorized for a tent, which may then be erected, removed and reinstalled at
such location from time to time, subject to such conditions as are imposed by
the village board. (Ord. 15-01-01, 1-6-2015)
9-4F-5-5: REGULATIONS FOR COUNTRY CLUBS:
   A.   No more than the greater of seven hundred (700) persons in the
aggregate or the maximum occupancy limits for the premises established under
applicable fire and life safety codes shall be permitted on the premises of a
country club at any one time, except when authorized by a special event permit
issued by the village. No more than one hundred ninety eight (198) vehicles
(excluding golf carts and golf course maintenance equipment) may be parked on
the premises of a country club at any one time, all of which shall be parked on
a hard surface parking lot as required by the off street parking regulations
set forth in this code.
   B.   The country club shall be closed to guests, members and the general
public between the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and the following sunrise.
However, guest, member and public activities on the golf course, use of outdoor
tents, large screen projections and live or amplified music or voices which are
played or piped outdoors shall cease or be moved indoors between the hour of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and the following sunrise, Sunday through Thursday,
and between the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and the following
sunrise on Friday and Saturday nights and the night prior to the major national
holidays as listed below. The use of the outdoor patio area by members or
guests not receiving food or beverage service is permitted notwithstanding the
closing hours for other outdoor activities. The major national holidays
referred to herein shall be New Year's Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day;
Labor Day; Thanksgiving; and Christmas Day. The time referred to herein shall
be Central Standard Time except that portion of the year during which daylight
saving time is generally in effect, and in such case the said time shall be
considered to mean daylight saving time.
   C.   During the hours where the premises are being operated, the licensee
shall have a responsible agent, with full authority to act for said licensee,
available, either in person or by telephone, to the village president and chief
of police.
   D.   The use of golf carts by members and the public for golf course
purposes shall be limited to electric and noncombustion engine golf carts.
   E.   No license issued hereunder shall be suspended or revoked except after
a hearing by the village board of trustees or its designee with reasonable
notice to the licensee and opportunity to appear and defend. However, if the
village president has reason to believe that any continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period.
   F.   Whenever any licensee or any officer, director, manager or other
employee in a position of authority of any licensee shall be convicted of any
violation of this section and the license of such licensee has been revoked by
the village, all fees paid on such license shall be forfeited, and it shall be
unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this license. If any
officer, director, manager or other employee in a position of authority of said
licensee shall violate any of the provisions of this section, the licensee and
such persons shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00), nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) upon conviction of any
such violation. Each day on which the violation occurs or continues to exist
shall be deemed a separate violation.
   G.   No person holding a country club license shall, in the conduct of the
licensed business or upon the licensed premises, violate or suffer or permit
the violation of any law of the state or any ordinance of the village. Proof
before the village board of trustees of facts which establish any such
violation of any state statute, or any village ordinance or resolution shall be
sufficient cause for revocation or suspension of any license issued by the
village, irrespective of whether or not a conviction has been obtained in any
court. Such revocation or suspension may be in addition to, or in lieu of, any
fine imposed for such violation. (Ord. 15-01-01, 1-6-2015)
9-4F-5-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR A PARK DISTRICT GOLF COURSE SPECIAL USE:
   A.   A special use may be granted for a park district golf course in the R-
4 golf course and country club residential district. An application for such
special use shall be submitted to the plan commission, in accordance with
sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title. The applicant shall submit the map showing the area to
be used for park district golf course in accordance with subsection
9-4F-5-1A of this article and such other information requested by the plan
commission or the village board as may be necessary to clarify the proposal and
its impact. Such information may include, but not be limited to, any of the
following:
      1.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating any
special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation devices needed to
ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through and around the
site.
      2.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height, size,
location, quantities and variety of plant materials for landscape buffer areas.
      3.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of new principal and accessory structures and a specifications
list for materials and finishes.
      4.   Lighting plan.
      5.   Preliminary surface stormwater management plan.
   B.   The plan commission shall forward its report and recommendations to the
village board of trustees. The village board, after receipt of the report and
recommendations of the plan commission, shall review the special use
application and supporting materials and make its findings as required by
section
9-11-9 of this title and with respect to the criteria set forth below:
      1.   For every eighteen (18) hole golf course unit, the park district
golf course shall not have more than one main clubhouse building and six (6)
accessory buildings (not including golf shelters within the meaning of the term
"accessory buildings"). Accessory buildings, for this purpose, shall include a
golf cart storage shed, range ball shed, a pro shop, a maintenance building or
a golf instructional facility. Excluding the main clubhouse building, a kitchen
shall be installed in only one accessory building. The kitchen in the accessory
building shall primarily serve carryout and snack items (with incidental
seating for not more than 16 persons), and shall not be a full service
restaurant. The main clubhouse building shall not exceed thirty thousand
(30,000) gross square feet in size (of which not more than 20,000 gross square
feet shall be located on the ground floor), nor be higher than the building
height permitted in the R-1 single- family residential district. The accessory
buildings, in the aggregate, shall not exceed twenty five thousand (25,000)
gross square feet in size, nor shall any accessory building be higher than the
building height permitted in the R-1 single- family residential district.
      2.   Landscaping, including a sufficient quality, quantity, variety and
size of plant materials, is provided in designated landscape buffer areas
whenever required to minimize the visual impact on any adjacent properties,
particularly residential areas.
   C.   The village board may condition granting the special use upon
compliance with the standards and specific elements contained in identified
drawings, plans, elevations and the map submitted by the applicant map or plat
(herein the "project documents"), to be referenced in the ordinance approving
the special use. If the village board votes to approve the special use, the
village clerk shall amend the official zoning map of the village to show the
approved underlying zoning district and the number of the ordinance approving
the special use. After such approval, the use of land and construction,
modification or alteration of any buildings or structures thereon and the
number of buildings permitted on a single zoning lot will be governed by the
special use ordinance, the controlling project documents and all other
applicable village ordinances to the extent not specifically waived in the
ordinance approving the special use. The bulk, setback and other standards
reflected in the project documents or in the special use ordinance shall
include, but not be limited to, the building setbacks from adjacent property
lines and/or dwelling units, the location of walkways, pedestrian paths,
parking areas, loading areas and the landscaping details set forth in any
landscape plans. (Ord. 98-6-14, 6-16-1998)
9-4F-5-7: SPECIAL EVENT LICENSES:
   A.   The licensee of a country club may make written application for a
special event permit from the village at least thirty (30) days in advance of
the date for which the permit is sought in order to host an event that exceeds
the numerical limits in attendance on persons on the premises or the time
limits for events. A special event permit application shall include such
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials
in the issuing of the special event permit, including, without limitation, the
following:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the licensee;
      2.   The name and telephone number of the individual(s) who will serve as
the on location contact person(s) for the applicant at all times during the
proposed special event;
      3.   The location(s) within the country club at which the special event
will take place;
      4.   The proposed dates and precise times of special event;
      5.   Any proposed contingency dates on which the special event will
occur;
      6.   A general description of the type and content of the special event;
      7.   The estimated number of personnel to be employed managing or working
the event and the estimated number of persons who will participate or attend as
spectators;
      8.   A list of any and all vehicles and types of equipment to be used
during the special event, and a list of proposed parking locations for such
vehicles and equipment, and for vehicles utilized by personnel to be employed
in the event;
      9.   A list of any and all village personnel or resources requested for
presence during the proposed special event;
      10.   A description of the nature and extent of any artificial lighting
or illumination to be used during the proposed special event, and information
demonstrating any impact that such lighting or illumination may have on
surrounding properties and residents;
      11.   A description of the type and extent of the projected noise and
sound emissions to be generated by the proposed special event; and
      12.   A description of the methods and procedures to be used for medical
treatment, food service, health and sanitation, and waste removal from all
locations at which the proposed special event is to be conducted.
   B.   In considering an application for a special event permit pursuant to
this chapter, the chief of police, and the village president shall consider,
without limitation, the following factors:
      1.   The degree to which the proposed special event would disrupt the
safe and normal use, or require the full or partial closure, of public rights
of way;
      2.   The degree to which the proposed special event would disrupt the
delivery of village services to village residents and businesses;
      3.   The degree to which the proposed special event would injure the
personal and property rights of affected residents and businesses;
      4.   The history of satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance by the
applicant, and/or at the proposed location(s), under special event permits
previously issued pursuant to this chapter, if any;
      5.   Whether the proposed special event will extend beyond: a) five (5)
consecutive days, or b) five (5) days within a thirty (30) day period;
      6.   The degree to which the sound and noise to be generated by the
proposed special event may constitute a public nuisance under applicable
provisions of this code;
      7.   Whether the proposed special event, including, without limitation,
the nature and extent of any artificial lighting or illumination used as part
of the special event, will cause significant inconvenience or undue hardship to
the village or to its residents, or otherwise constitute a public nuisance
under applicable provisions of this code; and
      8.   Whether other activities or events have previously been scheduled to
occur in the village at the same time as the proposed special event, and the
degree to which the simultaneous occurrence of such activities or events and
the proposed special event would disrupt the delivery of village services or
would otherwise endanger the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   As a condition to the issuance of a special event permit, the applicant
shall comply with such provisions of the Riverwoods insurance and indemnity
ordinance as the village's risk management advisor shall deem necessary or
appropriate prior to holding the special event, in order to protect the village
from any liability that may arise from the special event. The applicant
receiving a special permit shall also be required to: 1) comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other relevant sections of this code during
the course of the special event; 2) pay all fees required by this chapter; 3)
restore any public property or rights of way utilized during the special event
to as good a condition as they were prior to the special event.
   D.   The chief of police shall review the application and shall report his
or her findings and recommendation concerning the application to the village
president as soon as practicable after a complete application is submitted.
   E.   Upon receipt of the findings and recommendation of the chief of police,
the village president shall either: 1) grant the permit, which grant will be
subject to payment of all fees required pursuant to the village fee ordinance
and may be subject to additional conditions and upon such terms as the village
president deems necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public
health, safety, or welfare, or 2) deny the application. The failure of the
village president to grant or deny a permit application after receipt of the
findings and recommendation of the chief of police shall be deemed a denial of
the permit.
   F.   An applicant may appeal the denial by the village president of a
special event permit application to the board of trustees by filing an appeal
in writing with the village clerk within ten (10) days after the date of the
denial by the village president. The board of trustees shall review the special
event permit application and any other reliable and relevant evidence,
documents, or information, and may receive and consider new evidence. After due
consideration of the facts contained in the record submitted to the board of
trustees by the village president, and all other submitted materials, the board
of trustees may: 1) affirm the denial in total, or 2) overturn the denial, and
grant the special event permit, subject to any conditions and upon such terms
as the board of trustees deems necessary or appropriate to protect and promote
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   G.   If the use of village personnel or resources is required in conjunction
with any special event authorized by permit and pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall deposit with the village in escrow such amount as estimated by
the village president will be required to defray such additional expenses. The
village shall submit to the applicant an invoice detailing any and all charges
for such use within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the special event and
may reimburse itself from the funds deposited in the escrow. The applicant
shall pay all charges not recoverable from such escrow, as shown on such
invoice, within thirty (30) days of receipt of such invoice.
Not less than one week prior to the commencement of any country club special
event permit, the applicant shall submit a performance bond, if requested by
the village president, in an amount to be determined by the village president
but not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), and in a form acceptable
to the village attorney, which bond shall secure the restoration, repair, and
replacement of any public property or public right of way damaged as a result
of the proposed special event.
   H.   After a special event permit is issued, the special event conducted
pursuant thereto may take place only on the dates listed on the permit
application or, in the event of force majeure and upon the prior written
approval of the village president, on the contingency dates set forth in the
application. (Ord. 15-01-01, 1-6-2015)
CHAPTER 5
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose; Permitted Uses
9-5A-2: Special Uses
9-5A-3: Lot Area Requirements
9-5A-4: Building Height
9-5A-5: Yard Requirements
9-5A-6: Drive-Through Facilities
9-5A-1: PURPOSE; PERMITTED USES:
The B-1 neighborhood business district is intended to limit the nature and type
of commercial uses on individual zoning lots while permitting a greater range
of commercial development pursuant to the "special use" procedures of this
title. When development is undertaken as a mixed use planned unit development
as provided in article B of this chapter, the highest intensity of commercial
development is possible because the planned unit development procedures ensure
that comprehensive planning is undertaken to reduce any adverse impact of
development on adjacent areas. Therefore, the following retail business uses
are the only permitted uses in the B-1 neighborhood district: (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-
2-2000)
Bakeries, where all goods are sold on the premises at retail.
Candy and ice cream shops (including frozen yogurt).
Coffee shops.
Restaurants, subject to the following conditions:
No restaurant building shall contain in excess of five thousand two hundred
(5,200) square feet nor have a maximum seating capacity in excess of three
hundred twenty five (325) guests. No drive-through restaurant service shall be
permitted. No meals shall be served earlier than six o'clock (6:00) A.M., nor
later than ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on weekdays and eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. on weekends (excluding room service for hotel guests). No
live entertainment requiring more than two (2) performers at one time shall be
permitted, and such entertainment shall be provided solely as background to
meals served in the restaurant. Alcoholic beverages in the restaurant may be
authorized by appropriate liquor permit issued by the Riverwoods liquor
commissioner, but such permit shall require that the alcoholic beverages must
be served with meals to restaurant patrons and no later than ten thirty o'clock
(10:30) P.M. on weekdays and eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on weekends.
The waiting area for restaurant patrons shall be designed to serve a clientele
that is waiting to have a sit down meal and shall not serve persons desiring
alcoholic beverages without a meal. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000; amd. Ord. 02-8-23,
8-6-2002)
9-5A-2: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   The following uses, when authorized by the village board, constitute
the only special uses allowed in the B-1 neighborhood business district:
      Drive-through facilities, granted in accordance with the provisions of
section
9-5A-6 of this article.
      Mixed use planned developments, granted in accordance with the provisions
of article B of this chapter. A self- storage facility approved in a mixed use
planned development is not governed by the provisions of subsections B, C and D
of this section but by the terms of the special use ordinance adopted pursuant
to article B of this chapter.
      One automobile service station, granted in accordance with the provisions
of chapter 9 of this title.
      One self-storage facility, granted in accordance with the provisions of
subsections B, C and D of this section.
      Small parcel special use, granted in accordance with the provisions of
subsections E, F and G of this section. (Ord. 03-8-22, 8-5-2003; amd. Ord. 16-
02-01, 2-2-2016; Ord. 16-10-19, 10-18-2016)
   B.   A special use may be granted for one self-storage facility in the B-
1 neighborhood business district, provided that the board of trustees finds
that the proposed development satisfies the criteria set forth below:
      1.   The site has frontage on, and is accessed solely from, Milwaukee
Avenue.
      2.   The site area for the self-storage facility is at least four (4)
acres. The site is to be consolidated as a single lot of record under the
village's subdivision control ordinance 1 . There are no more than five (5)
buildings on the site, one of which may contain a second floor caretaker's
dwelling unit containing not more than three thousand (3,000) square feet of
living space. The caretaker's apartment is not to be located on the ground
floor of the building. The orientation of the buildings is to minimize the
visual impact on any adjacent residential areas. All building setbacks shall
conform to requirements of this B-1 district, except that the front yard
requirement shall be sixty feet (60') in lieu of eighty feet (80').
      3.   The terms "floor area ratio" or "FAR", and "impervious surface
ratio" or "ISR", for purposes of this section, shall have the same meanings as
given in subsection
9-5C-3C of this chapter, except that the term "usable floor area" used in the
definition of FAR shall include all areas used for storage. The FAR, ISR and
building height restrictions applicable to a special use for self-storage
facility are:
 
FAR    0.50
ISR    0.66
Height 35 feet
 
The lot coverage requirements of the B-1 district shall not be applicable to a
self-storage facility meeting the FAR and ISR requirements for a special use.
      4.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site are
preserved and incorporated into the development, wherever possible.
      5.   Landscaped buffers are provided around the perimeter of the
property, preferably exhibiting continuity throughout the development, to
minimize the visual impact on any adjacent properties, particularly residential
areas.
      6.   Stormwater detention facilities are designed as a visual amenity for
the project, wherever possible.
      7.   The exterior elevations of the buildings require the use of higher
grade finishes, such as masonry, split face block, granite, marble, stone walls
and, for buildings having frontage on Milwaukee Avenue, pitched roofs; such
elevations demonstrate an architecturally harmonious development throughout the
entire site.
      8.   Lighting standards shall substantially conform to the recommendation
of the plan commission.
      9.   Perimeter fencing and pedestrian access shall substantially conform
to the recommendation of the plan commission.
   C.   A special use application for a self-storage facility in the B-
1 district shall be made to the plan commission, in accordance with sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title. In addition, the applicant for a self-storage facility
shall have the burden of showing that the proposed development complies with
the definitions, regulations and standards contained in sections
10-1-5 and
10-1-9, subsections
10-2-3-6H and I, sections
10-5-3 through
10-5-9,
10-5-12,
10-5-13 and
10-5-15 through
10-5-17 of this code, unless and to the extent such provisions are waived by
the building officer and zoning officer. All references contained in the
foregoing sections of this code to the term "subdivision" and to "subdivider"
shall mean and include self-storage facilities within the B-1 district and the
developer of the self-storage facility, respectively. To the extent the
district regulations of the B-1 district are varied by the issuance of a
special use for a self-storage facility, the applicant shall not be required to
obtain a variance from the B-1 district regulations.
   D.   The plan commission shall forward its report and recommendations to the
village board of trustees. The village board, after receipt of the report and
recommendations of the plan commission shall review the special use application
and supporting materials and make its findings with respect to the criteria set
forth in subsection B of this section. If the village board votes to issue the
special permit and after the special use permit is issued, the village clerk
shall amend the official zoning map of the village to show the approved
underlying zoning district and the number of the ordinance approving the
special use permit. The village board may condition granting of the special use
permit upon completion of the proposed improvements within the specified period
of time. Failure to commence within that time period, unless an extension has
previously been granted by the Village Board, shall entitle the Village Board
to adopt an ordinance repealing the special use permit. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
   E.   A small parcel special use may be granted in the B-1 Neighborhood
Business District, provided that Village Board finds that the proposed
development satisfies the criteria set forth below: (Ord. 03-8-22, 8-5-2003)
      1.   Applicable Requirements: All requirements of the B-1 Neighborhood
Business District applicable to permitted uses in such district and all
requirements regarding any improvements covered under the Riverwoods
subdivision control ordinance or Building Code, including tree and woodland
protection, sidewalks, streets, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
water lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention facilities, and
standards for construction shall be applicable to the small parcel special use,
except where such requirements are specifically modified by this section or the
terms of an ordinance passed by the Village Board granting the small parcel
special use. To the extent that any district regulations of the B-
1 Neighborhood Business District are varied by the ordinance granting a small
parcel special use, the applicant shall not be required to obtain a variance
from the B-1 Neighborhood Business District regulations. (Ord. 03-8-22, 8-5-
2003; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
      2.   Authorized Uses For Small Parcel Special Use: Each property that is
granted a small parcel special use shall be used only for the following
principal uses:
            Limited restaurant.
            "Low intensity general office uses", herein defined to mean office
uses typically not having more than one employee for every one hundred fifty
feet (150') of usable square footage.
            Prepared food shop. (Ord. 16-10-19, 10-18-2016)
      3.   Maximum Area: The site area shall be less than three and one-half
(31/2) acres. At the option of the Village Board, the site shall constitute a
single lot of record under the Riverwoods subdivision control ordinance.
      4.   Landscape Buffers: Landscaped buffers, if feasible, are provided
around the perimeter of the property, preferably exhibiting continuity
throughout the development, to minimize the visual impact on any adjacent
properties, particularly residential areas.
      5.   Stormwater Detention: Stormwater detention facilities are designed
as a visual amenity for the project, wherever possible. (Ord. 03-8-22, 8-5-
2003)
      6.   Exterior Elevations: The exterior elevations of new construction
require the use of higher grade finishes, such as masonry, split face block,
granite, marble, stone walls, glass, glazed cladding or architectural wall
panels, and such elevations demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development throughout the entire site. (Ord. 16-10-19, 10-18-2016)
   F.   An application for a small parcel special use shall be made to the Plan
Commission, in accordance with sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title. The application shall also contain any other information
requested by the Plan Commission or the Village Board necessary to reasonably
clarify the proposal and its impact or economic feasibility. Such information
may include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
      1.   A traffic and parking study by a qualified traffic engineer
indicating the volume of traffic to be generated by the special use and
required parking and proposing any special engineering design features, limits
on the number or placement of curb cuts, or traffic regulation devices needed
to ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through and around the
site.
      2.   Tax and fiscal impact study detailing the impact the special use
will have on all applicable school districts and other taxing bodies; and
estimates shall be made, as to the projected revenues and expenditures by the
Village attributable to the development.
      3.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height, size,
location, quantities and variety of plant materials; a lighting plan and such
civil engineering plans or information on stormwater drainage as may be
required by the Plan Commission.
      4.   An analysis of the marketability of the demand for proposed services
or uses.
      5.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of the development and a specifications list for materials and
finishes.
   G.   1. The plan commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit applicant in accordance with
applicable statutes. Within a reasonable amount of time, usually within forty
five (45) days after the adjournment of the public hearing, the plan commission
shall submit in writing its finding of facts and recommendations to the village
board and the applicant.
      2.   The village board, after receipt of the report and recommendations
of the plan commission shall review the special use application and supporting
materials and make its findings with respect to the standards set forth in
subsection E of this section and section
9-11-9 of this title. The village board shall approve, approve with conditions
and modifications or reject the special use application within a reasonable
amount of time, usually within sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting
following the receipt of the written recommendation of the plan commission.
After the village board passes its ordinance authorizing the small parcel
special use, the village clerk shall amend the official zoning map of the
village to show the approved underlying zoning district and the number of the
ordinance approving the special use permit. The village board may condition
granting of the special use permit upon completion of the proposed improvements
within the specified period of time. Failure to commence within that time
period, unless an extension has previously been granted by the village board,
shall entitle the village board to adopt an ordinance repealing the special use
permit.
      3.   After the special use ordinance is passed, minor changes from the
approved site development plan may be allowed without a public hearing,
provided such changes are determined to be minor by the village board. A change
shall not be considered minor if it includes any of the following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development.
         b.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall lot
coverage of buildings or structures.
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use.
         d.   A relocation of any street, curb cut or intersection of more than
ten feet (10') in a manner which would increase the problems of traffic
circulation or public utilities, or which would cause a significant negative
impact upon the buffer or open space scheme.
         e.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space.
         f.   A change in the arrangement or location of principal structures
or uses by more than ten feet (10').
         g.   A reduction in total stormwater detention capacity or an increase
in the design rate of stormwater discharge from the site.
         h.   A change in setbacks.
Changes in addition to or in excess of the limits described above shall be
considered major changes and require submission of a new application which
shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required for the original
application.
      4.   No permit shall be issued for any construction pursuant to a special
use until the developer posts with the village an irrevocable letter of credit
running to the village in an amount sufficient to cover the full cost,
including engineering, legal and inspection fees and costs, plus twenty five
percent (25%) of such total, to ensure the satisfactory installation of all
streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention areas and all other
subdivision improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be based on
confirmed estimates approved by the village engineer and the letter of credit
shall be reviewed by the village attorney for conformance to village
ordinances. (Ord. 03-8-22, 8-5-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
9-5A-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Each retail business or service use that is a permitted use
in the B-1 neighborhood business district shall be located on a zoning lot
containing no less than one acre (excluding the land lying within the right of
way of any adjacent streets, roads and private easements for ingress and egress
lying adjacent to such lot). (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area
of any lot shall be covered by buildings or structures. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-5A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
As in R-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-5A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: All structures permitted in this district shall be set back
from the front street line not less than eighty feet (80').
   B.   Side Yard: Where a lot is used for any of the purposes permitted in
this district and is located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets,
and where a residential district adjoins the rear of said lot, the side yard on
the side of the lot adjacent to the street shall not be less than one hundred
feet (100'), except that the buildable width of the lot shall not be reduced to
less than fifty feet (50'). In all other cases a side yard is not required
except on the side of a lot adjoining a residential district, in which case
there shall be a side yard of not less than one hundred fifty feet (150'),
exclusive of the screening easement of section
9-2-8 of this title. Parking shall be permitted in the side yards, but no
closer than fifty feet (50') to the lot line nearest the residential district.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
one hundred feet (100'), except on a lot adjoining a residential district, in
which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150') exclusive of the screening easement of section
9-2-8 of this title. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-5A-6: DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES:
Drive-through facilities may be authorized as a special use in the B-
1 neighborhood business district for banks, pharmacies and prepared food shops,
subject to approval in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth
in section
9-11-9 of this title (and article B of this chapter, in the case of a mixed use
planned development). Drive-through facilities are commercial enterprises with
unique qualities which differentiate them from other special uses and, as such,
require the imposition of certain specific regulations intended to promote the
public health, safety, comfort, morale and convenience by ensuring that such
uses are compatible with neighboring property and only minimally impact the
area roadway network. Drive-through facilities shall also meet the following
special use standards:
   A.   Vehicular ingress and egress to and from the drive-through window or
service area shall be provided on a site that has its address and primary
driveway access on Milwaukee Avenue or Deerfield Road.
   B.   A prepared food shop shall be limited to one drive-through lane. Banks
and pharmacies may have multiple drive-through lanes, if approved by the board
of trustees.
   C.   Internal access interconnection with adjoining sites shall be provided
wherever feasible as determined appropriate by the board of trustees to
encourage the most optimum traffic movement and circulation pattern onto public
roadways.
   D.   The drive lanes are separated from landscaped areas by a six inch (6")
curb. The amount of stacking space for automobiles awaiting service shall be at
least six (6) stacking spaces per cashier, teller, or similar employee
transacting business directly with drive-through customers at any given time.
The stacking spaces shall measure a minimum of nine feet (9') in width, as
measured from the outermost point of any service window to the edge of the
driveway, and eighteen feet (18') in length.
   E.   The drive-through facility shall be located and designed so that, when
in use, it does not obstruct ingress or egress to the site, cause traffic to
back into a street, obstruct access to required on site parking, loading spaces
or garbage enclosures or become hazardous to pedestrians and cyclists. A safe
and convenient pedestrian circulation system shall be maintained both on the
zoning lot and on adjoining public rights of way.
   F.   All exterior lighting shall be inwardly directed so that no direct
lighting is cast off premises or glares into or upon the surrounding area or
any residential premises, and the drive-through facility shall be properly
screened to prevent glare from vehicles passing through the service lanes.
   G.   The volume of intercom menu displays shall comply with village noise
regulations.
   H.   The drive-through facility shall provide adequate on site outdoor waste
receptacles (which provide separate containers for recyclable materials), and
safeguards to ensure the operator provides daily litter cleanup of the
facility.
   I.   As a condition of approving a special use for any drive- through
facility, the board of trustees may restrict the hours of operation of the
facility or establish other use limitations to ensure compatibility with
surrounding land uses. (Ord. 16-10-19, 10-18-2016)
ARTICLE B. MIXED-USE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS
DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Purpose
9-5B-2: Uses Allowed
9-5B-3: Minimum Size Of Site
9-5B-4: Minimum Lot Size
9-5B-5: Maximum Lot Coverage
9-5B-6: Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio
9-5B-7: Maximum Floor Area Ratio
9-5B-8: Maximum Building Height
9-5B-9: Minimum Yard Requirements
9-5B-10: Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements
9-5B-11: Design Standards
9-5B-12: Procedures
9-5B-13: Conditions For Construction
9-5B-14: Revocation Of Particular Retail Business Or Service Uses
9-5B-15: Procedure For Approval Of New Retail Business Or Service Uses
9-5B-16: Ownership And Control
9-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a mixed-use planned development is to permit and encourage a
more creative, imaginative and desirable approach to certain office, commercial
and recreational developments than is generally possible under conventional
zoning regulations through the employment of planned unit developments. By
allowing greater flexibility in project design and by supporting the union of
planning and development, these regulations seek to enhance the character of
the village in accordance with the village's goals set forth in the
comprehensive plan. The mixed-use planned unit development is more complex and
of a different character than other special uses, requiring the establishment
herein of specific and additional procedures, standards and exceptions to
govern the recommendations of the village board. The mixed- use planned unit
development procedure has the following among its objectives:
   A.   To promote flexibility in design and provide for greater variety in the
type and location of structures and uses and to provide a procedure to
integrate compatible and mutually supportive uses.
   B.   To promote the efficient use of land and facilitate a more economic
arrangement of buildings, parking, vehicle circulation systems and utilities.
   C.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better design and development, with the inclusion of
aesthetic amenities.
   D.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, landscape design,
building forms and building relationships with a possible mixing of different
uses in an innovative design.
   E.   To provide a procedure which can relate the type, design and layout of
the development to the particular site, thereby encouraging preservation to the
greatest extent possible of the site's natural character, its landscape and
topography.
   F.   To provide a procedure which can take notice of preexisting
environmental conditions, especially for sites located on a former landfill,
and to devise the most appropriate means of specifying the nature and type of
construction and allowable uses in keeping with environmental clean-up
objectives and the goal of avoiding any future leaching or migration of
contaminants to off-site locations.
   G.   To provide for the prevention and control of soil erosion and surface
flooding, by integrating control measures within the development of larger
units of land which lie within the same tributary area.
   H.   To create a method for the preservation of common open space for the
continuous use and enjoyment of the residents and users of the development.
   I.   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreational
facilities, open space and other public and private facilities than would
otherwise be provided under strict application of conventional zoning.
   J.   To encourage land use which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-2: USES ALLOWED:
   A.   The following retail uses involving the sale of goods, products or
merchandise directly to the consumer or the provision of personal services
directly to the consumer shall be permitted in a mixed use planned development,
if they are included in the ordinance approving the final development plan. The
enumerated list is not intended to be exhaustive, but any use not specifically
enumerated must be approved by the board of trustees as a similar and
compatible use in accordance with section
9-5B-15 of this article:
      Antique shops.
      Apparel and accessory stores.
      Appliance or equipment sales or repair stores.
      Art and school supply stores.
      Art galleries.
      Automobile dealerships and leasing agencies for new vehicles or used
vehicles in conjunction with a new automobile dealership.
      Automobile parts stores.
      Bakeries.
      Banks, savings and loans, credit unions, and mortgage companies providing
financial services.
      Barbershops and beauty parlors.
      Bicycle sales and repair stores.
      Book, video and audio sales and rental stores, including books,
magazines, tapes, records, discs (analog and digital) and any form of
electronic media for recording and reproducing words, sounds or images,
provided such material is of a nonpornographic nature.
      Building materials and garden supply stores.
      Camera and photography supply stores.
      Candy confectionary, and ice cream stores (including frozen yogurt).
      Carpet and rug stores.
      Catalog showrooms.
      Catering establishments for the preparation, serving and delivery of
meals or food items for consumption off premises at public or private
functions.
      China and glassware stores.
      Coffee and tea stores (which may include incidental prepared food and
beverages for consumption on or off the premises).
      Commercial indoor recreation facilities, such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, skating rinks or bowling alleys or similar uses that are enclosed in
buildings and are operated on a commercial or membership basis for patrons of a
shopping center or for members.
      Computer sales and servicing stores.
      Convenience blueprinting, photocopying and printing or shipping
establishments.
      Dance schools.
      Day spas that provide a range of beauty and fitness services.
      Department stores.
      Drop off dry cleaning and pressing establishments (provided the actual
cleaning of dry goods occurs off premises).
      Electronic products stores.
      Fabric stores.
      Fish markets.
      Florist stores.
      Fruit and vegetable markets.
      Furniture stores.
      Furrier shops offering the storage or conditioning of furs.
      Gardening stores.
      Gift and card stores.
      Grocery stores (which may include the direct retail sale of food items
such as meats, cereals, grains, produce, baked goods, dairy products, canned
and frozen prepared food products, beverages, cleaning supplies, pet food and
supplies, pharmaceuticals, over the counter medicines, personal products,
magazines, plants and other sundry and similar items).
      Hardware stores.
Health and wellness stores offering products for sale at retail, which may
include products containing cannabidiol; however, 1) a health and wellness
store shall not sell products that are permitted to be sold only by a licensed
cannabis dispensary or which require a tobacco license from the State of
Illinois, and 2) a health and wellness store that offers products containing
cannabidiol shall not give away or sell such products to any person under 18
years of age.
      Health clubs or exercise facilities.
      Hobby stores, not including video or computer game parlors or other uses
intended to attract and provide commercial indoor recreation, amusement or
entertainment; however, the term hobby store shall not include a 'licensed
establishment' as defined in the Video Gaming Act of the State of Illinois.
      Home furnishings, including retail sale of drapery, bedding and curtains.
      Household appliance stores.
      Interior decorating stores.
      Jewelry/watch sales and repair stores.
      Leather goods and luggage stores.
      Lock and key service stores.
      Meat market or poultry stores (but no slaughter or stripping is
permitted).
      Music schools.
      Musical instrument sales and repair stores.
      Office machine, service and supply stores.
      Optical stores.
      Orthopedic and medical appliance stores.
      Package handling services.
      Painting and decorating stores.
      Pharmacies.
      Photography or artist studios.
      Picture framing stores.
      Plumbing supply and fixture stores.
      Restaurants (without drive-through facilities, and only a destination
restaurant shall be allowed in any freestanding restaurant building).
      Retail clothing stores.
      Retail shoe stores.
      Sales centers for mobile or wireless telecommunications carriers.
      Shoe, hat and leather repair stores.
      Sporting goods stores.
      Stationery stores.
      Tailor and dressmaking stores.
      Toy stores.
      Travel bureaus.
      Upholstery repair stores.
   Notwithstanding the above listed uses, automobile repair and body shop
establishments, including, but not limited to, muffler shops, oil change shops,
car care centers, tire centers and other uses similar in nature or impact, are
not authorized under this subsection, nor are drive-through facilities of any
kind authorized except pursuant to subsection B of this section. Except for
accessory off street parking and loading, all of the uses authorized by this
subsection shall be conducted within a building, unless otherwise authorized in
the ordinance approving the final development plan.
   B.   In the ordinance approving the final development plan, the village
board of trustees may approve the following additional uses, but in each case,
the board shall make specific findings that the standards of section
9-11-9 of this title have been satisfied:
      Automobile service station with convenience store. An automobile service
station shall have as its principal use the dispensing and retail sale of
automotive fuels or oils and convenience automotive goods and may include, as
an accessory use, a convenience store offering primarily food and beverages.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an automobile station may also provide
electrical recharging of automotive batteries and, as and when electrical
vehicles become more prevalent, such recharging activity and accessory
facilities for customers may become the principal use. No outside storage or
display of merchandise shall be permitted on such premises except as expressly
authorized in the ordinance authorizing approval of this use as part of a mixed
use planned development.
      Cannabis dispensary. A special use permit authorizing a cannabis
dispensary shall be revocable at any time that such dispensary fails to comply
with the requirements for a cannabis business license as set forth from time to
time in this code. As part of the special use permit process, the board may
impose conditions related to restrictions on hours of operation, site and
interior lighting, site landscaping, parking, loading facilities, building
security, and other site and building-specific conditions for a cannabis
dispensary. The board may defer or condition final approval of a special use
permit until administrative rules for the oversight of cannabis dispensaries
are promulgated by relevant state agencies.
      Daycare centers.
      Destination restaurant. For purposes of a mixed use planned development,
a "destination restaurant" means a full service establishment providing an
upscale restaurant experience, in which the principal use is the service of
prepared food and beverages for consumption on the premises. For a restaurant
to be considered a destination restaurant under this article: 1) all flatware
and dishware used in the service of meals shall be nondisposable, 2) the
restaurant shall require customers to order when seated and to be served at
table by waitstaff, and 3) the project site plan and quality of building
materials and design shall exhibit exceptional adherence to the purposes and
objectives of this article, in particular the standards set forth in section
9-5B-11 of this article. Other characteristics of a destination restaurant may
include wine service available by the glass and bottle and the availability of
private meeting/dining rooms or banquet rooms. Limited delivery or carryout
service shall be permitted as an accessory use or as a courtesy to seated
customers at the conclusion of their meals.
      Drive-through lanes for a bank or similar financial institution or for a
pharmacy or a drive-through lane for a prepared food shop. Drive-though
facilities in a mixed use planned development shall conform to the requirements
for such facilities generally as set forth in article A of this chapter, except
as modified by any ordinance granting a special use for a mixed use planned
development.
      General and professional offices.
      Hotels (which may have enclosed destination restaurants).
      Licensed establishment, as defined in the Video Gaming Act of the State
of Illinois, which offers video gaming terminals for play, provided that such
use will remain subject to all limitations specified in the liquor license
issued for such establishment.
      Religious institutions as defined in section
9-2-3 of this title.
      Self-storage facility with no outside storage and with all indoor storage
to be climate controlled. The facility shall have an on site, staffed customer
office open during business hours. The building shall have no more than three
(3) stories in height or approximately thirty five feet (35') in height to top
of a flat roof (not counting roof mounted HVAC units or elevator parapets).
      Tobacco stores, provided smoking rooms are not allowed.
      Uses devoted to village facilities, public facilities, or such other
public or village uses as the board may from time to time direct.
   C.   The determination of the granting of a special use for a mixed use
planned unit development is intended to offer fixed and durable guidelines as
regards the overall site plan and architectural design approval (and, after
approval of the final development plan, the site plan and architectural design
are not intended to be easily or quickly modified, but rather require a full
review of all changed circumstances and conditions as would warrant, in the
discretion of the village board of trustees, granting such modification).
However, the enumerated retail businesses and services in the special use
ordinance approving the final development plan will be of a more conditional
character and subject to revocation as provided in section
9-5B-14 of this article. Retail business and service uses that are found to be
similar and compatible to those specifically enumerated in subsection A of this
section may be approved by the village board in the ordinance approving the
final development plan or by subsequent ordinance at any regularly scheduled
meeting of the board. A request to consider whether a proposed, new retail
business and service use is in fact similar and compatible to those
specifically enumerated in subsection A of this section shall be sought in
accordance with the procedures described in section
9-5B-15 of this article. The terms "floor area ratio" or "FAR", and "impervious
surface ratio" or "ISR", for purposes of this article, shall have the same
meanings as given in subsection
9-5C-3C of this chapter. (Ord. 05-7-14, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 16-02-01, 2-2-
2016; Ord. 16-10-19, 10-18-2016; Ord. 20-01-01, 1-7-2020; Ord. 21-11-22, 11-2-
2021; Ord. 22-01-02, 1-18-2022)
9-5B-3: MINIMUM SIZE OF SITE:
Each mixed use planned development shall consist of a minimum of three and one-
half (31/2) acres. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-4: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
The lot area of each zoning lot shall not be less than one acre (excluding the
land lying within the right of way of any adjacent streets, roads and private
easements for ingress and egress lying adjacent to such lot). (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-
2-2000)
9-5B-5: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
The maximum lot coverage of all principal and accessory buildings, including
parking structures, in a mixed use planned unit development, shall be
determined on an individual lot basis, but foundation plantings and site
landscaping for the entire site shall be coordinated and implemented following
a comprehensive landscape plan and the design standards set forth in section
9-5B-11 of this article. (Ord. 05-7-14, 7-19-2005)
9-5B-6: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO:
The maximum impervious surface ratio, in a mixed use planned unit development,
shall be determined on an individual site basis. (Ord. 05-7-14, 7-19-2005)
9-5B-7: MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA RATIO:
The floor area ratio of all principal and accessory buildings, including
parking structures, in a mixed use planned development shall be determined on
an individual site basis. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The height of all principal and accessory buildings, including parking
structures, in a mixed use planned development shall be determined on an
individual site basis but shall not exceed forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 00-5-7,
5-2-2000)
9-5B-9: MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following yards shall be provided and maintained in a mixed use planned
development:
   A.   Front, Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Buildings: All buildings, including parking structures, shall be set
back from the front lot line or side lot line abutting either a roadway right
of way or private street a minimum of sixty feet (60'). All buildings,
including parking structures, shall be set back from the rear lot line a
minimum of forty feet (40'), but the setback from the rear lot line shall
increase to one hundred feet (100') if the area adjacent to the rear lot line
of the planned development is a residential district.
      2.   Parking: All surface off street parking and loading areas shall be
set back from the front lot line or side lot line abutting either a roadway
right of way or private street a minimum of forty feet (40'). All surface off
street parking and loading areas shall be set back from the rear lot line a
minimum of forty feet (40') but the setback from the rear lot line shall
increase to one hundred feet (100') if the area adjacent to the rear lot line
of the planned development is a residential district. Notwithstanding the
foregoing surface off street parking setbacks, the board of trustees shall have
the right to reduce the setback from any front lot line or side lot line to
less than forty feet (40') but not less than thirty five feet (35') in any
instance when the surface off street parking setback provided from the rear lot
line is greater than forty feet (40').
   B.   Interior Side Yards:
      1.   Buildings: All buildings, including parking structures, shall be set
back from each interior side yard line a minimum of thirty feet (30') plus one
foot (1') for every three foot (3') increase in building height over sixteen
feet (16') in height from the perimeter lot line.
      2.   Parking: All surface off street parking and loading areas shall be
set back from each interior side yard line a minimum of five feet (5'). (Ord.
02-8-23, 8-6-2002)
   C.   Modifications: Notwithstanding the minimum yard requirements generally
applicable to mixed use planned developments, the board of trustees may modify
one or more of such minimum yard requirements in the ordinance approving the
final development plan if it finds that such modifications will better
effectuate the purposes of a mixed use planned development and the design
standards set forth in section
9-5B-11 of this article. (Ord. 05-7-14, 7-19-2005)
9-5B-10: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
The off street parking and loading requirements shall be determined on an
individual site basis. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-11: DESIGN STANDARDS:
A mixed use planned development in the B-1 neighborhood business district may
be authorized by the village board only by ordinance as a special use, provided
the village board finds that the proposed development satisfies the criteria
set forth in this section in addition to the criteria set forth in section
9-11-9 of this title. A mixed use planned development shall be governed by the
regulations of the B-1 neighborhood business district, except as provided in
this article and as modified by the ordinance approving the mixed use planned
development. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
   A.   The mixed use planned development shall have frontage on Milwaukee
Avenue. (Ord. 16-02-01, 2-2-2016)
   B.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site are
preserved and incorporated into the development, wherever possible.
   C.   Landscaped buffers are provided around the perimeter of the property,
preferably exhibiting continuity throughout the development, to minimize the
visual impact on any adjacent properties, particularly residential areas.
   D.   The buildings on the site are oriented in a manner that creates a
harmonious development and minimizes the visual impact on any adjacent
residential areas.
   E.   Stormwater detention facilities are designed as a visual amenity for
the project, wherever possible.
   F.   The exterior elevations of the buildings require the use of higher
grade finishes, such as masonry, split face block, granite, marble and stone
walls and pitched or mansard roofs or flat roofs that have decorative parapet
walls; the exterior elevations demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development throughout the entire site. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
   G.   Lighting standards on the property conform to the requirements of the
residential outdoor lighting ordinance (title 5, chapter 6 of this code) except
where otherwise recommended by the plan commission. (Ord. 06-9-20, 9-19-2006)
   H.   Preservation of natural areas and installation of new landscaping are
proposed in accordance with a comprehensive landscape plan for the site which
foster an aesthetically pleasing development that will protect and preserve the
appearance, character, general health, safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
   I.   The signs in the development conform to the applicable regulations for
signs set forth in the Riverwoods sign ordinance, except as such regulations
are modified in the ordinance approving the final development plan. (Ord. 05-7-
14, 7-19-2005)
9-5B-12: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures: Applications for a mixed use planned development shall be
made to the plan commission, in accordance with sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title, but in addition shall be subject to the special
procedures set forth in this section and sections
9-5B-13 through
9-5B-15 of this article.
   B.   The Applicant: The applicant for a mixed use planned development shall
be either all of the owners of record of the property which comprises the site
or the contract purchaser, with consent of all owners, provided that the
application shall be submitted in the name of the owner of record; and that the
party petitioning for the mixed use planned development shall disclose his
interest in the property, such as an equitable interest via a purchase contract
for all or a portion of the property in question.
   C.   Preapplication Conference:
      1.   The applicant shall be encouraged to request a preapplication
conference with village officials and staff, such as the building official,
village attorney and village engineer. The purposes of such conference shall be
for the applicant to furnish information as to the location, size and uses in
the proposed development and a list of all requested modifications to the
subdivision code and zoning ordinance.
      2.   Following the conference, the building official will inform the
applicant of the results of the preliminary review and of the information,
materials and documentation that must be submitted for a formal application.
      3.   At the time of the initial preapplication conference, the village
shall furnish the applicant with an estimate of the costs and fees to be
incurred by the village for legal, engineering, planning and other review or
the proposed project by the village's attorneys, engineers, planners and other
consultants, and the applicant shall make monthly cash deposits into an escrow
account to be established and maintained by the village for the payment of such
costs and fees.
   D.   Preliminary Site Plan:
      1.   Upon completion of the preapplication procedure, the applicant may
then make formal application to the village board requesting a special use
permit for a mixed use planned development on forms provided by the village,
and including copies of a preliminary site plan containing the information
required by the village subdivision ordinance. This preliminary site plan shall
be the subject of a public hearing before the plan commission, as regulated in
section
9-11-9 of this title. The application shall also contain any other information
requested by the plan commission or the village board necessary to reasonably
clarify the proposal and its impact or economic feasibility. Such information
may include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
         a.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the mixed-use planned development and
proposing any special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation
devices needed to ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through
and around the site.
         b.   Tax and fiscal impact study detailing the impact the mixed- use
planned development will have on all taxing bodies; and estimates shall be
made, as to the projected revenues and expenditures by the village attributable
to the development.
         c.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height,
size, location, quantities and variety of plant materials.
         d.   An analysis of the marketability of the demand for proposed
services or uses.
         e.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of the development and a specifications list for materials and
finishes.
         f.   Preliminary civil engineering analysis of issues related to
surface storm water drainage and management and flood plain and floodway
elevations.
      2.   The village clerk shall forward one copy of the preliminary site
plan and special use permit documents to each of the following persons within
ten (10) working days of receipt thereof from the applicant: village president
and trustees, all members of the plan commission, the village engineer, the
village planner and the village attorney. The balance of the copies of the
documents shall be held on file by the village clerk for use by other public
officials as may be required.
      3.   The plan commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit application in accordance
with applicable statutes.
      4.   Within a reasonable amount of time, usually within forty five (45)
days after the adjournment of the public hearing, the plan commission shall
submit in writing its finding of facts and recommendations to the village board
and the applicant, based on the standards set forth in this article.
      5.   The board of trustees shall approve, approve with conditions and
modifications or reject the preliminary site plan within a reasonable amount of
time, usually within sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting following
the receipt of the written recommendation of the plan commission.
         a.   If the preliminary site plan is not approved, the village board
may state in writing the reasons for the decision and such writing, if
prepared, shall be filed with the village clerk, and a copy shall be sent to
the applicant.
         b.   If the preliminary site plan is approved or approved with
conditions and modifications, the village board shall authorize the applicant
to submit a final development plan for the mixed-use planned development.
   E.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Within one year following the approval of the preliminary site plan,
the applicant shall file with the village a final development plan containing,
in final form, the information required in the preliminary site plan and
additional information required by the village subdivision ordinance 1 .
      2.   The plan commission shall review each final development plan with
regard to the plan's conformance to the approved preliminary site plan and to
the final development plan requirements, and shall submit its report and
recommendations to the village board, usually within forty five (45) days.
      3.   Minor changes from the approved preliminary site plan may be allowed
in the final development plan without a public hearing, provided such changes
are determined to be minor by the village board. A change shall not be
considered minor if it includes any of the following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development.
         b.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall coverage
of structures.
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use.
         d.   A relocation of any street, curb cut or intersection of more than
ten feet (10') in a manner which would increase the problems of traffic
circulation or public utilities, or which would cause a significant negative
impact upon the buffer or open space scheme.
         e.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space.
         f.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading spaces.
         g.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
         h.   A change in the arrangement or location of principal structures
or uses by more than ten feet (10').
         i.   A reduction in total storm water detention capacity or an
increase in the design rate of storm water discharge from the site.
         j.   A change in setbacks, FAR or ISR.
Changes in addition to or in excess of the limits described above shall be
considered major changes and require submission of a new application which
shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required for the original
application.
      4.   The village board, after receipt of the report and recommendations
of the plan commission shall review the final development plan. If the final
development plan is held to be not in substantial conformance with the
preliminary site plan or in conformance with the final development plan
requirements, the village board shall inform the applicant of the specific
areas found deficient. The applicant may request from the village board an
extension of time to bring each final development plan into conformance and to
complete the requirements, or may request a new public hearing under the
procedures established for approval of a preliminary site plan. If the final
development plan is determined to be in substantial conformance with the
approved preliminary site plan and in conformance with the final development
plan requirements, the village board may authorize by ordinance the granting of
a special use for a mixed-use planned development. To the extent the
regulations of the B-1 neighborhood business district are modified by the
ordinance authorizing the mixed- use planned development, the applicant shall
not be required to obtain a variance from the zoning board of appeals. The
village board may condition granting the special use upon compliance with the
specific elements of "Project Documents" to be referenced in the ordinance
approving the special use, including the final development plan, landscaping
plan, storm water management plan, elevation drawings and similar project
documents.
      5.   Upon approval of the special use, the village clerk shall amend the
official zoning map of the village to show the approved underlying zoning
district, the number of the ordinance approving the granting of a special use
for the mixed-use planned development. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
9-5B-13: CONDITIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION:
After the approval of the final development plan, the use of land and
construction, modification or alteration of any buildings or structures within
the mixed-use planned development will be governed by the approved final
development plan and all applicable village ordinances not specifically waived
in the ordinance granting the mixed-use planned development. In addition, the
following conditions apply to the construction pursuant to a mixed-use planned
development:
   A.   Construction in accordance with the final development plan shall
commence within one year. Failure to commence within that period shall, unless
an extension has been granted by the board of trustees according to subsection
B of this section, shall entitle the village board to adopt an ordinance
repealing the special use for the mixed-use planned development, thereby
rendering null and void the final development plan and all prior plan approvals
upon which final plan approval depends, including all permits based on such
approvals.
   B.   The village board may extend the time limit for the commencement of
construction as follows: If a delay, or anticipated delay, is caused by
governmental action without fault on the part of the developer, an extension
may be granted for a period not longer than the period of the governmental
delay. For good cause shown, an extension may be granted for such period of
time as the village board deems appropriate.
   C.   No permit shall be issued for any construction for a mixed- use planned
development until the developer posts with the village an irrevocable letter of
credit running to the village in an amount sufficient to cover the full cost,
including engineering, legal and inspection fees and costs, plus twenty five
percent (25%) of such total, to ensure the satisfactory installation of all
streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention areas and all other
subdivision improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be based on
confirmed estimates approved by the village engineer and the letter of credit
shall be reviewed by the village attorney for conformance to village
ordinances. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-14: REVOCATION OF PARTICULAR RETAIL BUSINESS OR SERVICE USES:
If any particular use that has been authorized as a special use in the mixed-
use planned development shall adversely affect the health, safety, morals and
welfare of the residents of the village of Riverwoods or prove to be
incompatible with the character and uses of the remaining portion of the mixed-
use planned development or the character and uses of the surrounding property
or the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan of the village, then the
village president and board of trustees, in the exercise of their discretion,
upon reasonable written notice to the affected owners and tenants, may adopt an
ordinance revoking the special use granted as to that particular incompatible
use. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-15: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF NEW RETAIL BUSINESS OR SERVICE USES:
If an owner of property within the tract designated as a mixed-use planned
development desires to obtain approval for a special use that is not currently
designated in section
9-5B-2 of this article, the proposed new special use shall be submitted to the
building official with such other information as may be requested, including,
but not limited to, such information as the building official might have
requested in connection with the initial granting of a special use for a mixed-
use planned development. The building official shall forward such owner's
request to the village board for consideration, without further public hearing
or other formal procedures, if the building official determines that such use
appears to be similar and compatible to those specifically enumerated and
allowed as permitted uses or special uses in the B-1 neighborhood business
district. The village president and board of trustees shall have authority to
determine whether a proposed, new retail business and service use is in fact
similar and compatible to those specifically enumerated and allowed as
permitted uses or special uses in the B-1 neighborhood business district.
Approval of a retail business or service use other than those specifically
enumerated as a permitted use or special use in this article shall be stated in
an ordinance granting such special use. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
9-5B-16: OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL:
A tract of land to be developed as a mixed-use planned development shall be
constructed and maintained under common ownership or control. Documentation
reflecting how the mixed- use planned development will be maintained under
common ownership or control shall be submitted at the time of application for
the special use. The documents shall include, but not be limited to, a
declaration of covenants, conditions, restrictions and easements or reciprocal
cross-easement agreement or instruments of like import clearly defining the
shared maintenance of common open spaces and detention/retention areas and
other utilities within the development, shared/cross access and parking
agreements, common design elements including integration of common
architectural themes and active and passive open space and landscape areas.
Approval of the mixed-use planned development shall be subject to review of
these documents by the plan commission and the village attorney and approval by
the village president and board of trustees. Prior to the completion of the
buildings and other improvements within each of the zoning lots and/or phases
comprising the mixed-use planned development, including the village engineer's
acceptance of all subdivision improvements with such zoning lot and/or phase,
the owner or owners of such zoning lot or phase shall not convey any portion
thereof without first obtaining the approval of the village president and board
of trustees. Any conveyance of any portion of a zoning lot or phase within the
mixed-use planned development in violation of the preceding restriction shall,
by the fact of such conveyance itself, constitute a termination of the rights
granted under the special use for construction on such zoning lot or phase of
the mixed-use planned development. (Ord. 00-5-7, 5-2-2000)
ARTICLE C. O AND R1 OFFICE AND RESEARCH DISTRICT ONE
SECTION:
9-5C-1: Purpose
9-5C-2: Permitted Uses
9-5C-2-1: Special Uses
9-5C-3: Lot Area And Bulk Requirements
9-5C-4: Yard Requirements
9-5C-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
9-5C-6: Buildings Per Lot And Applicable Standards
9-5C-7: Natural Areas And Landscaping
9-5C-8: Access
9-5C-9: Permitted Signage
9-5C-10: Exterior Lighting Standards
9-5C-11: Mechanical Penthouses Or Accessory Buildings
9-5C-12: Large Office Campus Special Use
9-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the O and R1 office district one is to govern the location and
development of low intensity office research uses in various parts of the
village. The area and bulk requirements of this article are intended to permit
low intensity office and research in such a way as to enhance and protect the
woodland character of the village. The district is intended as a transitional
district providing a buffer between residential districts and the following
major streets: Lake-Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue, Deerfield Road and Saunders
Road. (Ord. 83-12-13, 12-5-1983; amd. Ord. 01-8-23, 8-7-2001)
9-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Offices: Corporate, general, medical, business, professional or
governmental offices. No merchandise shall be handled for sale, or merchandise
services rendered on the premises, except such as are incidental or accessory
to the principal permissible use of the premises. No portion of any lot shall
be used for open or unenclosed storage.
   B.   Research Laboratories: The operations and activities of such uses shall
be conducted wholly inside a building or buildings, and no use shall emit
odors, gas, dust, smoke, lighting, radioactivity, nuclear radiation or any
other effects to an extent offensive, objectionable or dangerous to any
surrounding or nearby properties. No merchandise shall be handled for sale, or
merchandise services rendered on the premises, except such as are incidental or
accessory to the principal permissible use of the premises. No portion of any
lot shall be used for open or unenclosed storage.
   C.   Restaurants And Employee Cafeterias: This use shall be designed and
built as an integral part of a building whose primary use is in subsection A or
B of this section and limited to employees only. In no event shall such a use
constitute more than ten percent (10%) of the building in which it is located.
Any such use available to the general public shall be required to obtain a
special use permit pursuant to section
9-11-9 of this title.
   D.   Health Clubs: Such clubs shall be limited to exercise, physical
facilities for pool, track or court games and supporting dressing and office
activities. All such facilities, with the exception of tennis courts and
jogging or fitness trails, shall be in a building primarily devoted to uses in
subsection A or B of this section. No more than ten percent (10%) of any
building may be devoted to such uses and shall be limited to the use of
employees only. Any such use available to the general public shall be required
to obtain a special use permit pursuant to section
9-11-9 of this title.
   E.   Conference Center: When a conference center is a part of uses in
subsection A or B of this section, it shall be permitted as an accessory use in
separate buildings. Such conference centers may contain conference areas,
entertainment areas, kitchen facilities, and temporary living quarters for
corporate executives and guests. No such facility shall exceed ten thousand
(10,000) square feet in total area, nor shall its living quarters be occupied
for more than four (4) consecutive days or for more than forty percent (40%) of
the time in any calendar year.
   F.   Governmental Facilities: Governmental facilities for libraries, police
and fire stations, stormwater management, and other public or village uses
shall be a permitted use when approved by the village board. The regulations
and standards in this chapter that would normally be applicable to permitted
uses, including intensity and bulk requirements, yard requirements, off-street
parking and loading, landscaping, bufferyard requirements, site access,
signage, and exterior lighting, shall be under the direction of the village
board in the case or a governmental facility and may be modified by the village
board.
(Ord. 83-12-13, 12-5-1983; amd. Ord. 24-09-13, 9-3-2024)
9-5C-2-1: SPECIAL USES:
Religious institutions. (Ord. 03-6-9, 6-3-2003)
9-5C-3: LOT AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intensity And Bulk Requirements:
 
FAR    0.14
ISR    0.31
height 35 feet
 
   B.   Minimum Site Area:
      1.   Site Area: The minimum site area for O and R1 uses shall be five (5)
acres. Sites shall be single or multiple lots controlled for development by a
single interest. No property shall be subdivided unless the subdivision fully
complies with the subdivision code (title 10 of this code) and all other
applicable code provisions.
      2.   Lot Area: The average lot size shall be eighty thousand (80,000)
square feet.
   C.   Floor Areas And Impervious Surface: The maximum floor area ratio (FAR)
and impervious surface ratio (ISR) shall be governed by subsection A of this
section.
      1.   Floor Area Ratio (FAR): The floor area ratio (FAR) is the total of
all usable floor area of the buildings divided by the site area in accordance
with the following formula:
         FAR = fa
            s
      Where:   FAR = floor area ratio
         fa = area of all floors of the building(s), as defined below
         s = site area, the actual area of the site, minus all flood ways, or
land within the existing road right of ways.
      2.   Floor Area: For purposes of this chapter, "usable floor area" shall
be defined as the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or structure, measured from the interior faces of the interior walls,
or from the interior line of walls separating two (2) buildings or structures,
including the following:
         a.   Floor area of the basement, if it is used for other than storage.
         b.   Penthouses, other than that area used for mechanical equipment.
         c.   Attics having headroom of seven feet (7') or more.
         d.   Accessory storage areas located within working spaces, such as
counters, racks or closets, or storage used in the conduct of the business or
used and calculated in the gross leasable area for multi-tenant buildings.
         e.   Space devoted to the production of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
The "usable floor area" shall not include:
         a.   Elevator shafts and stairwells on each floor.
         b.   Floor spaces and shafts used for mechanical, telephone and
electrical equipment.
         c.   Attics having headroom of less than seven feet (7').
         d.   Areas used for storage, except as required by d above.
         e.   Space devoted to off-street parking or loading facilities.
         f.   Entrance lobbies and atrium-type areas.
         g.   Washrooms intended for general public use.
         h.   Mechanical penthouses.
         i.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
         j.   Enclosed porches.
      3.   Impervious Surface Ratio (isr): The impervious surface ratio is the
area covered by buildings, parking, drives, aisles, loading areas, patios or
other paved areas, divided by the site area in accordance with the following
formula:
         isr = Ab + Ap + Al + Ao
               S
      Where:   isr = impervious surface ratio.
      Ab = building area, the area covered by buildings from the maximum
outside dimensions.
      Ap = parking areas, all areas used for loading or access to those areas.
      Al = loading areas, all areas used for loading or access to those areas.
      Ao = other areas, all other paved areas, including patios, walks,
entryways, etc.
      S = site area, the actual area of the site, minus all areas of floodways,
or the existing road right-of-ways.
9-5C-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yards. All yards in the O & R1 District which front on Lake-Cook,
Saunders, Deerfield, Milwaukee or Portwine Roads shall have a minimum depth of
one hundred feet (100'), of which at least eighty feet (80') shall consist of a
bufferyard. Such yards shall be measured from the right-of-way line.
   B.   Setbacks. All buildings shall have a setback from the property lines
and the right of way of the roads mentioned in subsection A above of one
hundred feet (100'). All buildings shall have a setback of at least twenty feet
(20') from internal street or property lines created by subdivision of the
original zoned property.
   C.   Bufferyards. The exterior of all areas zoned O & R1, other than defined
front yards, shall be planted in a sixty foot (60') bufferyard. There shall be
no parking or drives permitted in the bufferyards. Access roads may cross the
bufferyards where required for access, but shall be oriented to minimize the
areas consumed by such crossings.
9-5C-5: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Off-Street Parking. In addition to the provisions of Chapter 10 of
Title 9, the following shall apply: Whenever any building is erected for any of
the uses permitted in this District, parking spaces shall be provided on the
lot or in the building to accommodate three (3) cars for each one thousand
(1,000) square feet of usable floor area, as defined in Section
9-5C-3. One space per four hundred (400) square feet may be permitted subject
to Village approval, provided the site plan provides for the location of
additional spaces to reach the three (3) spaces per thousand (1,000) square
feet minimum, and provided a covenant appears on the plat requiring the
property owners to begin installation of said additional parking within ninety
(90) days of notice by the Village.
   Off-street parking in an O & R1 Office and Research District shall meet the
following requirements as to size:
   A required off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in
width and at least eighteen feet (18') in length, exclusive of access drives,
aisles, ramps and columns. Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the stalls may be
eight feet (8') in width and at least fifteen feet (15') in length, exclusive
of access drives, aisles, ramps and columns, if such areas are designated for
compact cars.
   The minimum width of the driving lane between parking stalls shall be:
 
Angle Parking Driving Lane Width
90 degrees    22 feet
60 degrees    18 feet
45 degrees    14 feet with curb stop for each car; 16 without curb stops
 
   B.   Off-Street Loading. Loading spaces and docks are not required for
normal deliveries of mail, office supplies, office equipment or furniture.
Where regular deliveries of research materials, merchandise, products or
supplies occur, or where trucks or trailers would be parked for overnight or
for several hours (except for moving in tenants), off-street loading spaces
shall be provided.
      1.   Number. The minimum number of loading spaces accessory to buildings,
structures, and uses hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, in
the O & R1 District shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Usable Floor Area             Number
20,000 to 150,000 square feet 1 space
over 150,000 square feet      2 spaces
 
   Structures or uses having less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of
floor area shall provide receiving facilities accessible by motor vehicles off
an adjacent alley, service drive or other space on the same zoning lot.
      2.   Size. A required loading space shall be at least ten feet (10') in
width and at least twenty five feet (25') in length, and shall have a vertical
clearance of not less than fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Variations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter,
variation of loading requirements specified in this Section may be permitted,
subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      4.   Plan Commission Review. Design, circulation and landscaping of
loading areas shall be subject to review by the Village Plan Commission to
insure they are fully screened from general public view.
   C.   Storage of Garbage and Trash. All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any property shall be concealed or suitably
screened from public view. All garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage
storage devices shall be emptied and the contents thereof properly disposed of
not less than once every seven (7) days.
9-5C-6: BUILDINGS PER LOT AND APPLICABLE STANDARDS:
In the O & R1, Office & Research District One, more than one building or
structure may be constructed on a parcel or tract of land, or on a lot (as
defined in Section
9-2-3 hereof) and/or "subdivision" lots (as defined in Section 1-5 of Title 10
of the Village Code), provided that no property shall be subdivided unless the
subdivision fully complies with the Subdivision Code (Title 10) and all other
applicable provisions.
The definitions, regulations and standards contained in Section
10-1-5,
10-1-9,
10-2-3-6-H and I,
10-5-3,
10-5-4,
10-5-5,
10-5-6,
10-5-7,
10-5-8,
10-5-9,
10-5-12,
10-5-13,
10-5-15,
10-5-16 and
10-5-17 of the Village Code shall apply to all projects within the O-R1
District, unless waived by the Village Engineer upon approval by the Building
Officer and Zoning Officer. All references contained in the preceding sections
to the term "subdivision" shall mean and include projects within the OR-
1 District. Similarly, all references in said preceding sections to subdivider
shall mean and include developers within the OR-1 district.
For the purposes of this Chapter, Section
10-5-7-J is amended to include the following additional sentence to appear at
the end of the second paragraph of said section:
In the event that the Village Engineer determines that downstream channel
capacity is inadequate, a lower release rate may be required.
9-5C-7: NATURAL AREAS AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Woodlands. Woodlands are areas greater than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet covered by trees with generally interlocking canopies, where the
canopy trees have a diameter at breast height (DBH) of at least six inches
(6"). Woodland areas shall be protected and preserved by limiting clearing and
the cutting of trees within woodland areas. No more than fifteen percent (15%)
of its trees shall be cut or destroyed. Where the full width of a bufferyard is
within a woodland, those buffer areas shall be exempt from the buffer planting
requirements.
   B.   Floodways. No areas of regulatory floodway as defined in Section
9-2-3 shall be cleared or altered in any way, nor shall any such area
contribute to the calculation of floor area ratio (far) or impervious surface
ratio (isr) to determine the intensity of development on the site.
   C.   Landscaping. In order to be compatible with or promote the wooded
character of the Village, all areas not covered by impervious surfaces shall be
landscaped in a manner that will promote the establishment of natural wooded
areas. The following minimum standards shall be followed:
      1.   The bufferyards required by Section
9-5C-4 shall be landscaped so that eighty percent (80%) of their area is in
natural plantings. No more than twenty percent (20%) of the total area may be
in water features, unless waived by the Village Engineer upon approval by the
Building Officer and the Drainage Officer. Berms shall be installed so that
parking areas are screened from views by either berms or natural plantings. A
minimum of the following plant material shall be planted for every acre of
bufferyard:
         Option 1.
            10 canopy or evergreens (6 inch caliper)*
            4 canopy or evergreens (4 inch caliper)*
            40 canopy or evergreens (2 inch caliper)*
            6 understory trees (2.5 inch caliper)*
            40 canopy trees (5 foot height)
            10 understory (3 foot height)
            100 shrubs (2 foot height)
         Option 2.
            4 canopy or evergreens (6 inch caliper)*
            8 canopy or evergreens (4 inch caliper)*
            20 canopy or evergreens (3 inch caliper)*
            10 understory trees (2.5 inch caliper)
            220 canopy trees (5 foot height)
            40 understory trees (3 foot height)
            200 Shrubs (2 foot height)
         Option 3.
            2 canopy or evergreen (6 inch caliper)*
            8 canopy or evergreen (4 inch caliper)*
            20 canopy trees or evergreen (3 inch caliper)*
            20 canopy trees or evergreen (2 inch caliper)*
            12 understory trees (2.5 inch caliper)*
            80 canopy or understory trees (5 foot height)
            40 understory trees (3 foot height)
            100 shrubs (2 foot height)
            *Evergreens' equivalent height in feet of inches caliper.
               (14-16' = 6", 12' = 4", 10' = 3", 7-8' = 2".
      2.   All other landscaped areas shall have an average of at least ten
(10) trees (any combination of canopy trees of four inch [4"] caliper or
evergreens of twelve foot [12'] height) per acre.
      3.   Existing trees located on the property and preserved as part of the
landscape shall count on a one for one basis for the required material.
   D.   Natural Areas. Natural areas are those portions of the bufferyards that
are planted with canopy trees, understory trees and shrubs interbedded to form
a planting arrangement with all three (3) heights of plant material intermixed.
The ground cover may be bark or wood chips, natural unmowed grasses, flowers or
ground covers. These areas shall contain at least eighty percent (80%) of the
required plant material of the bufferyard total plant material.
   E.   Water Features. Water features are areas with a permanent pool of
water. These areas may be decorative and they may also provide for required
stormwater detention. Such features shall have their edges landscaped with
rock, stone, emergent littoral vegetation or other materials that will prevent
shoreline erosion or exposure of bottom areas during low water periods.
9-5C-8: ACCESS:
Access to use in the O & R1 District shall be limited to Lake-Cook Road,
Milwaukee Avenue, Deerfield Road, Saunders Road or streets within the O & R1
District. In no event shall any such use take access to Portwine Road or direct
traffic through a residential street to Portwine Road. Access on each major
street (Lake-Cook, Milwaukee, Saunders or Deerfield) shall be controlled as
follows:
   A.   Sites with site areas of more than fifty (50) acres shall be permitted
one access on each major street on which they have a minimum of five hundred
feet (500') of frontage. Additional access points may be permitted where it
would improve traffic flows, permit shared access or reduce congestion.
   B.   Sites with site areas of twenty five (25) to fifty (50) acres shall be
permitted a single access to the major streets, unless specifically required to
do otherwise by the Village.
   C.   Sites with site areas of less than twenty five (25) acres shall be
permitted a single access or required by the Village to minimize curb cuts. A
traffic analysis shall be submitted to the Village Engineer in this regard.
   D.   The Village Plan Commission may recommend an overall circulation plan
covering several properties. Such a plan may require the sharing of access
locations, or temporary access. All landowners, except those with a previously
approved plat, shall conform to such a plan once it is adopted by the Village
Board.
   E.   All internal roads, streets or drives shall be built to minor street
standards of Section
10-3-4 of the Village subdivision regulations and shall be privately owned and
maintained. Where a property is to be subdivided, the developer shall submit
documents for approval by the Village Attorney to insure the maintenance and
upkeep of such roads.
9-5C-9: PERMITTED SIGNAGE:
   A.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   During the course of construction, temporary real estate and realtor
signs may be erected which advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises
upon which such signs are located, provided, however, that no more than one
double-faced sign shall be permitted at each project entrance. Such signs shall
be removed within thirty (30) days after such sale or lease of the premises or
within thirty (30) days of reaching eighty five percent (85%) occupancy. No
such sign shall exceed seventy two (72) square feet per face.
      2.   Construction signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor
may be erected during constructions. There shall be only one such sign per
building, and it shall not exceed thirty six (36) square feet in area. This
sign shall be on the building or within twenty feet (20').
      3.   No temporary signage shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height.
   B.   Permanent Signs:
      1.   Wall Sign:
         a.   The size shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the area of the
front wall. (Front wall being the wall with the largest face).
         b.   No permanent wall sign shall exceed two hundred (200) square feet
per building.
         c.   There shall be no more than one sign per building.
      2.   Address Sign: Each building may have a sign containing its address
not to exceed six (6) square feet in area.
      3.   Free Standing Structural Signs:
         a.   In addition to the wall sign, there shall be no more than one
free standing multi-faced structural sign per building.
         b.   No free standing structural sign face shall exceed sixty (60)
square feet in area, and the height shall not exceed six feet (6') above the
grade of the nearest adjoining street.
      4.   Architectural Feature: Each development may have either a single
architectural feature or an entrance feature at each entrance. Single
architectural features shall not have a total surface area of more than three
hundred fifty (350) square feet or height greater than thirty feet (30').
Entrance features shall not have a total surface area of more than two hundred
twenty five (225) square feet or height greater than thirty feet (30'). All
such features shall be subject to architectural review by the Plan Commission.
Where the feature's location, adjoining landscaping, topography or other
factors make a larger feature desirable, the Village Board may permit a larger
feature, provided it is found that such a feature will not adversely affect
neighbors, but will lead to a better design or a safer project.
      5.   Illuminations: Permanent signs and architectural features may be
back lighted, illluminated by spot lights shielded to eliminate glare from
adjoining roads or property, or signs whose letters, but not background, are
lighted by internal sources.
      6.   All permanent signs shall be reviewed by the Village Plan
Commission.
   C.   Traffic Directional Signs:
      1.   Each sign shall not exceed nine (9) square feet in area, nor be
higher than four feet (4') above ground.
      2.   As required, indicating the flow of traffic and ingress and egress
routes.
   D.   Street Entrance Identification Signs: As required indicating street
entrances.
9-5C-10: EXTERIOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
The standards are intended to protect motorists, pedestrians or neighboring
properties from excessive light or glare from office-research developments.
   A.   Internal Lighting: Lighting standards and luminaires for parking lots,
internal roads, drives and walkways shall conform to the following limitations:
 
Type of Luminaire Maximum permitted Maximum height Increased buffer
                  Illumination
No cutoff         .3 footcandles    12 ft.         20%
Cutoff                                            
<90 degrees       3.0 footcandles   30 ft.         none
 
Illumination shall be measured in footcandles at six inches (6") above ground
level in a horizontal position at the inside of the bufferyard. A direct
reading portable light meter with color and cosine corrected sensor with
multiple scales shall be used. The meter shall have been tested and calibrated
to an accuracy of plus or minus five percent (5%) within one year of its use.
Measurements shall be made after dark. The difference between lights on
measurements and lights off measurements shall be used to determine the
illumination, thereby eliminating the effects of ambient light.
   B.   Types of Luminaires: There are two (2) basic types of luminaires as
shown in the illustration attached hereto as Exhibit "A" below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.gif]
      1.   No Cutoff Luminaire: A luminaire whose light source is visible from
above a line parallel to the ground running through the center of the luminaire
(i.e., an angle of greater than 90 degrees with the perpendicular). Such
luminaires have the maximum glare potential.
      2.   Cutoff Less Than Ninety Degrees Luminaire: This luminaire has a
cutoff of less than ninety degrees (90°), so that at some point distant from
the fixture the luminaire is totally shielded from view. This fixture reduces
glare to a minimum. Except as in subsection C of this section, all cutoff
fixtures shall be designed and located so that the cutoff line is at least ten
feet (10') within the property line of the development.
      3.   Floodlighting: Floodlighting of buildings shall not exceed one foot-
candle measured from a height equal to one-half (1/2) the building height.
   C.   Street Lighting: All street lighting shall meet village and/or state
specifications for illumination. (Ord. 83-12-13, 12-5-1983)
9-5C-11: MECHANICAL PENTHOUSES OR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Where mechanical penthouses are installed, they shall be designed to blend into
the building's architecture and shall not exceed the maximum height. In the
event that a mechanical accessory building is supplied, it shall be fully
screened from view by a combination of berms and evergreens. This screening
shall be approved by the village plan commission. (Ord. 83-12-13, 12-5-1983)
9-5C-12: LARGE OFFICE CAMPUS SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Large Office Campus Special Use; Purpose Of The Special Use: A moderate
intensity office and research use to be known as a "large office campus special
use" may be authorized in the O and R1 district pursuant to the provisions of
this section. The purpose of a large office campus special use shall be to
permit the establishment of a planned office campus environment involving large
tracts of land in the O and R1 district. The office campus environment is
intended to be developed in such a way as to complement the adjacent,
semirural, wooded areas of the village, which consist mainly of single-family
residential districts. The large office campus special use is suitable for the
corporate headquarters of a major corporation. The minimum size of the required
tract requires a coordinated approach that exhibits common thematic concepts
and harmonious architectural design throughout the project.
   B.   Applicable Requirements: All requirements of the O and R1 district set
forth in all of the preceding sections of this article shall be applicable to
the large office campus special use, except where such requirements are
specifically modified by this section or by the terms of an ordinance passed by
the village board of trustees granting a special use permit for a large office
campus special use.
   C.   Permitted Uses Under A Large Office Campus Special Use Permit: The
permitted uses under a large office campus special use permit shall also be the
permitted uses in the O and R1 district, with modifications as set forth below:
      1.   With respect to the entire tract for which the large office campus
special use permit is initially approved, restaurant and employee cafeteria
uses shall not be limited to ten percent (10%) of any one building primarily
devoted to uses in subsections
9-5C-2A and B of this article, but may constitute ten percent (10%) of the
total usable floor area allowable for such tract. Such uses shall not be
available to the general public, but shall be restricted to employees, guests
and invitees of the occupants of the building. Upon any subsequent subdivision
of such entire tract, the portion of the usable floor area within the entire
tract which is then devoted to restaurant and employee cafeteria uses shall be
deducted in determining the allowable usable floor area remaining for such
uses.
      2.   Daycare and related uses for use by employees, their families,
guests and invitees shall be permitted uses under a large office campus special
use permit. With respect to the entire tract for which the large office campus
special use permit is initially approved, daycare and health club uses shall
not be limited to ten percent (10%) of any one building primarily devoted to
uses in subsections
9-5C-2A and B of this article, but may constitute ten percent (10%) of the
total usable floor area allowable for such tract. Such uses shall not be
available to the general public, but shall be restricted to employees, guests
and invitees of the occupants of the building. Upon any subsequent subdivision
of such entire tract, the portion of the usable floor area within the entire
tract which is then devoted to daycare and health club uses shall be deducted
in determining the allowable usable floor area remaining for such uses.
      3.   Parking garages and decks (including multistory garages and decks)
shall be permitted uses under a large office campus special use permit even if
not located within the buildings primarily devoted to uses in subsections
9-5C-2A and B of this article, provided that parking garages or decks located
in the portion of the O and R1 district indicated on the map available in the
village clerk's office shall be subject to the limitations of subsection D of
this section.
For purposes of subsection C2 of this section, covered or enclosed walkways,
bridges and service tunnels connecting any two (2) buildings on the site,
whether above or below ground, shall be excluded from the definition of "usable
floor area".
   D.   Intensity And Bulk Requirements: The intensity and bulk requirements
that govern a large office campus special use shall be modified from those
otherwise governing the O and R1 district as follows:
      1.   Minimum Site Area/Minimum Lot Size: The minimum site area at the
time of application for a large office campus special use permit shall be
seventy five (75) acres. There shall be no minimum lot size for subdivided lots
that are created within a tract that is approved as a large office campus
special use. However, a large office campus special use permit may limit the
number of zoning lots (as defined in section
9-2-3 of this title) for the tract that is approved as a large office campus
special use.
      2.   Floor Area Ratio: The maximum permitted floor area ratio in a large
office campus special use shall be 0.3345. The village board of trustees, in
granting a large office campus special use permit, shall have the authority to
exclude "dedicated computer room space" from the space that would otherwise be
counted in arriving at the maximum permitted number of usable square feet.
"Dedicated computer room space" means space that is primarily intended to house
computer services and other equipment with the understanding, however, that
such space may be functionally designed and used for light staffing of
personnel. Calculations of FAR shall be undertaken on the basis of the entire
tract that is devoted to the large office campus special use and shall not be
calculated on an individual lot by lot basis notwithstanding the subdivision of
such tract as provided in subsection E of this section. The number of usable
square feet remaining from time to time for development on any unimproved
zoning lot within the entire tract that is devoted to the large office campus
special use shall be the maximum permitted number of usable square feet for
such entire tract less the number of usable square feet in the buildings
already constructed on such tract (after applying the exclusion, if any, for
dedicated computer room space).
      3.   Impervious Surface Area: The maximum permitted impervious surface
area in a large office campus special use shall be .60. Calculations of ISR
shall be undertaken on the basis of the entire tract that is devoted to the
large office campus special use and shall not be calculated on an individual
lot by lot basis notwithstanding the subdivision of such tract as provided in
subsection E of this section. The amount of permitted impervious surface area
remaining from time to time for development on any unimproved zoning lot within
the entire tract that is devoted to the large office campus special use shall
be the maximum permitted impervious surface area for such entire tract less the
impervious surface area already existing on such tract.
      4.   Building Height: The maximum permitted building height in a large
office campus special use shall be fifty eight feet (58'). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in granting a special use permit for a large office campus special
use, the village board of trustees shall have the right to limit the maximum
height of buildings, parking garages and decks located in "restricted area A"
to thirty five feet (35') and the maximum height of buildings, parking garages
and decks located in "restricted area B" to forty seven feet (47'). Such
restricted areas are the respective portions of the O and R1 district that are
indicated on the map available in the village clerk's office. Enclosed rooftop
mechanical rooms, parapet walls and architectural features, such as articulated
architectural wall panels and similar improvements, shall not be included in
calculating building height provided that: a) rooftop mechanical rooms shall be
centered in the middle of the roof area, away from the edge of the roof, and
will not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the total roof surface area
for the entire tract constituting a large office campus special use (measured
at any time with respect to the full build out of all buildings built and
projected to be built, according to the site plan) and not more than thirty
seven percent (37%) of the roof surface area of any one building; b) rooftop
mechanical rooms shall be enclosed and clad in material that is consistent and
compatible with the architectural facade of the building; c) in no event shall
the height of any architectural feature of a building exceed the height allowed
for rooftop mechanical rooms or parapet walls of such mechanical rooms; and d)
in no event shall any rooftop mechanical room, parapet wall or architectural
feature extend more than eighteen feet (18') above the permitted fifty eight
foot (58') building height. For purposes of determining the height of any
building under pertinent provisions of this code, the portion of the building
to be treated as the front may be identified on the site plan that is approved
as part of the large office campus special use permit.
      5.   Multiple Buildings: Multiple buildings, if shown on the approved
site plan, may be constructed and maintained on a tract devoted to a large
office campus special use without the requirement of any subdivision or
resubdivision of such tract into separate lots of record.
      6.   Determining Conformance To Bulk Regulations: An applicant for a
large office campus special use permit shall have the right to include in its
application, for purposes of establishing the site area of the large office
campus special use, lands abutting or adjoining the land that is the subject
matter of such application which, but for its prior dedication to a
governmental entity by either the applicant or a related or affiliated entity
or a related or affiliated predecessor in title, would have been included in
the application provided the applicant delivers evidence of such prior
ownership, in a manner acceptable to the village, prior to the date of approval
of the ordinance granting the large office campus special use permit or within
six (6) months after such date. If such evidence is provided, such lands shall
be considered as part of the large office campus special use for purposes of
determining satisfaction of and conformance to the minimum site area, FAR, ISR,
setback, lot and other bulk requirements and limitations of this code
(including lighting setback requirements). Similarly, any land that is a part
of a large office campus special use that is dedicated or conveyed to a
government entity by the owner of the site at the time of approval of the
ordinance granting the large office campus special use permit or thereafter for
public roadways, bike or pedestrian paths, utilities or similar public purposes
shall be included in the site area of one or more of the zoning lots within the
original tract (as specified by the owners of such lots) for purposes of
determining satisfaction of and conformance to the minimum site area, FAR, ISR,
setback, lot and other bulk requirements and limitations of this code
(including lighting setback requirements).
   E.   Subdivision: After a large office campus special use permit is approved
for a site, the site may be subdivided into separate lots of record provided
the subdivision fully complies with the village's subdivision control ordinance
(title 10 of this code), unless variations therefrom are approved by the
village, and all other applicable code provisions. Before or simultaneously
with the submission of an application for subdivision of the site, or any
portion thereof, into separate lots of record, an application for an amendment
to the ordinance granting the large office campus special use permit shall be
submitted to the village for approval by the village board of trustees if the
property owner proposes changes in the original site plan (as defined in
subsection H of this section) as part of such subdivision. An application for
such an amendment shall be processed in the same manner as the original
application for the approval of a large office campus special use permit,
except that the village board of trustees, after receipt of a plan commission
recommendation, shall also consider the following standards in evaluating the
application for amendment to the original site plan, namely whether,
notwithstanding the approval of the requested amendment, the architectural and
thematic unity of the large office campus special use, and the enhanced
landscaping and building design contemplated by the approved site plan, will be
maintained, and the standards referred to in subsection J of this section will
continue to be satisfied. It shall be a further condition to approval of any
subdivision involving a site classified as a large office campus special use
that, if any time after the subdivision the resulting lots are not owned by a
single owner or by affiliated or related interests of a single owner, then the
site shall be made subject to covenants, conditions and restrictions of record
(CC&Rs) between and among all owners of all property on the site for purposes
of ensuring the ongoing maintenance of all common facilities, including common
parking, roadways, landscape, storm water improvements and utilities, and the
development of the site in a unified and cohesive manner. The CC&Rs shall
provide the village, in a manner acceptable to the village, with the right, but
not the obligation, to seek equitable relief to enforce such covenants and the
provisions establishing such right of enforcement shall not be subject to
amendment or revocation without the approval of the village. Following any
subdivision, each resulting lot shall continue to be subject to the provisions
of the ordinance granting the large office campus special use permit, as
modified by the terms of any amendment to the special use permit.
   F.   Setbacks/Buffer Yards/Landscaping: Underground portions of buildings,
service or utility tunnels or other underground improvements may be located
within the required yard setbacks. The exterior of the original site for which
the large office campus special use permit is initially approved shall be
planted in a thirty five foot (35') wide buffer yard, except that all defined
front yards (i.e., those yards which front on Lake-Cook, Saunders, Deerfield,
Milwaukee or Portwine Roads) shall be planted in an eighty foot (80') wide
buffer yard, and any areas subject to conservancy easements shall be planted or
maintained in natural states as such easements may require. Lawn and planting
beds and organized tree and shrubbery planting may complement areas near
buildings. Landscaping in open areas away from the buildings should include
some elements of natural landscape planting in order to extend visually, to the
extent reasonably feasible, the natural areas required for buffer yards.
Recognizing the greater density permitted for a large office campus special use
and the varying degrees of landscape density appropriate to different portions
of the site, the goal should be to landscape all areas not covered by
impervious surface, storm water management facilities, water features or other
improvements. The design of berms at the periphery of the site should
incorporate natural, flowing contours, whenever possible, allowing for the
establishment of natural, wooded areas in order that the exterior of the site
shall promote the wooded character of the village.
   G.   Parking: As modifications to the standards in subsection
9-5C-5A of this article, if the proposed site plan indicates that no parking
spaces will be compact stalls (i.e., only 8 feet in width), then the required
minimum width of all parking stalls shall be eight feet six inches (8'6") and
the required minimum width of a driving lane between parking stalls shall be
eighteen feet (18') when angle parking is provided at seventy degrees (70°).
   H.   Contents Of Site Plan: The applicant for a large office campus special
use permit or for an amendment to a large office campus special use permit (in
the event that the original site is subdivided) shall make formal application
to the village board of trustees on forms as directed by the village, including
copies of a site plan (the "site plan") as described below. The proposed
special use shall be the subject of a public hearing before the plan
commission, as regulated in section
9-11-9, "Special Uses", of this title. The following items constitute the
minimum requirements for the contents of a site plan, unless waived by the
village board of trustees. The applicant should feel free to supplement the
list with whatever materials deemed appropriate to illustrate compliance with
the regulations and intent of this section. Maps which shall be included as
part of the application shall be drawn at a scale not more than one hundred
feet to one inch (100' = 1"). All maps shall be dated and include a scale and
north point.
      1.   A legal description of the site.
      2.   A boundary line survey of the site prepared and certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing the dimensions of the property's boundaries
and all existing rights of way adjacent to the property.
      3.   Existing and proposed topography of the land with contours shown at
intervals no greater than two feet (2'). Topographic data shall refer to the
"USGS North American Datum - Mean Sea Level Elevation".
      4.   Existing and proposed landscape features including significant tree
groupings, isolated preservable trees six inches (6") or more in diameter at
one foot (1') above ground level, scenic views and other natural features such
as lakes, ponds, waterways, wetlands and floodplains, and a conceptual
landscaping planting plan, indicating the height, size, location, quantities
and variety of plant materials.
      5.   Existing zoning and land uses on and adjacent to the site.
      6.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
building heights, number of stories, entrances, gross floor areas, floor area
ratios and impervious surface ratios. The site plan shall indicate any future
phases that are not presently planned for construction and indicate the same
information for such contemplated buildings to the extent known.
      7.   All proposed uses including statistical tabulation of the acreage
amounts of all uses.
      8.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed streets (to
the extent known, with respect to sites that are to be developed in phases),
curb cuts, aisles, bicycle paths and walkways, the number and location of all
parking spaces and loading areas and the names of all streets. If the exact use
of a future phase of the site is not known at the time of a site plan
submittal, parking and loading requirements shall be calculated for the general
use having the greatest parking and loading requirements.
      9.   All areas to be dedicated as common open space, designated for
easements, and all sites to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for parks,
playgrounds, school sites, public buildings and similar public and quasi-public
uses, together with the proposed plan for the permanent maintenance of such
common open space areas.
      10.   A utility concept plan, including the location of all existing
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water main lines on the site and on property
immediately adjacent to the site. Similar information shall be provided for
gas, electric, telephone and cable television utilities.
      11.   A storm water drainage plan, identifying portions of the site in
the floodplain or in floodplain fringe areas, the existing and proposed flow
and storm drainage, and the location of drainage ditches and culverts, standing
water and proposed detention/retention facilities.
      12.   Location, height and material for all screening walls and fences,
the type and height of outdoor proposed parking and roadway lighting facilities
and the location and dimensions of each outdoor trash storage area.
      13.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the large office campus special use and
proposing any special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation
devices needed to ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through
and around the site.
      14.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of the development and a specifications list for materials and
finishes.
      15.   If a subdivision of the site is requested by the applicant, a
preliminary subdivision plat or, at the applicant's option, a final subdivision
plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all requirements of
the Riverwoods subdivision control ordinance, to the extent that compliance
with the subdivision regulations of the village shall be required by the
village board of trustees.
      16.   Other information requested by the plan commission or the village
board of trustees within thirty (30) days after the commencement of the public
hearing on the application for special use approval, necessary to reasonably
clarify the proposal and its economic impact.
   I.   Special Use Processing:
      1.   The village clerk shall forward one copy of the site plan and
special use permit documents to each of the following persons within five (5)
working days of receipt thereof from the applicant: village president and
trustees, all members of the plan commission, the village engineer, the village
planner and the village attorney. The balance of the copies of the documents
shall be held on file by the village clerk for use by other public officials as
may be required.
      2.   The plan commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit application in accordance
with applicable statutes.
      3.   Within a reasonable amount of time, usually within forty five (45)
days after the adjournment of the public hearing, the plan commission shall
submit in writing its findings of fact and recommendations to the village board
of trustees and the applicant, based on the standards set forth in subsection J
of this section.
      4.   The board of trustees shall approve, approve with conditions and
modifications or reject the application seeking approval of a large office
campus special use permit within a reasonable amount of time, usually within
sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting following the receipt of the
written recommendation of the plan commission. If the large office campus
special use permit is not approved, the village board of trustees shall state
in writing the reasons for the decision and such writing shall be filed with
the village clerk, and a copy shall be sent to the applicant. If the large
office campus special use permit is approved or approved with conditions and
modifications, the village clerk shall amend the official zoning map of the
village to show the approved underlying zoning district and the number of the
ordinance approving the large office campus special use permit.
      5.   The village board shall have the authority to establish in a large
office campus special use permit the manner in which subsequent amendments to
an approved site plan may be undertaken, reviewed and approved.
   J.   Required Findings: No applicant for a large office campus special use
permit or for an amendment to an existing large office campus special use
permit shall be approved unless the village board of trustees, in addition to
making the required findings under section
9-11-9 of this title, shall find that the proposal exhibits reasonably
substantial adherence to the purposes and objectives of a large office campus
special use. The following standards shall be used by the village board of
trustees to evaluate whether an application for a large office campus special
use permit exhibits reasonably substantial adherence to the purposes and
objectives of this section:
      1.   Landscaped areas exhibit continuity with prior stages of development
and satisfy the goals of the O and R1 district and the large office campus
special use.
      2.   Exposed storage areas, trash and garbage retainers, exposed
machinery installation, service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings
and structures, and similar accessory areas and structures are accounted for in
the design of the project, are screened from view and made as unobtrusive as
reasonably possible.
      3.   Internal traffic control design minimizes traffic backups and other
hazards on adjacent external roads for motorists entering and exiting the site.
      4.   The orientation of any buildings, including parking garages and
decks, attempts to minimize the adverse impacts on any adjacent residential
areas from lighting, noise, deliveries, loading and unloading and general
activity levels.
      5.   Storm water detention facilities are designed as a visual amenity
for the project.
      6.   The exterior elevations of the buildings call for the use of higher
grade finishes and materials and demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development with other, existing buildings throughout the entire site.
      7.   If the development consists of more than a single zoning lot or
several subdivided lots under multiple ownerships, the CC&Rs ensure the
continued maintenance of the properties and of the various amenities,
landscaping and design features of the site.
   K.   Conditions Of Development: After the approval of a large office campus
special use permit, the use of land and construction, modification or
alteration of any buildings or structures on the designated site shall be
governed by the approved site plan and all applicable village ordinances not
specifically waived in the ordinance granting the large office campus special
use permit. In addition, no permit shall be issued for any construction
pursuant to a large office campus special use permit until the developer posts
with the village an irrevocable letter of credit running to the village in an
amount sufficient to cover the full cost, including engineering, legal and
inspection fees and costs, plus twenty five percent (25%) of such total, to
ensure the satisfactory installation of all streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, roadway lighting, landscaping in
perimeter setback areas and retention/detention areas. The cost of the
improvements shall be based on confirmed estimates approved by the village
engineer and the letter of credit shall be reviewed by the village attorney for
conformance to village ordinances. Any new construction on a vacant part of the
site originally designated as a large office campus special use, if commencing
more than twenty (20) years after the date of the ordinance granting the large
office campus special use permit, shall be governed by the provisions of the O
and R1 district, unless application for extending the large office campus
special use permit is submitted to and approved by the village board of
trustees in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. As to
portions of the site that are developed within twenty (20) years after the date
of the ordinance granting the large office campus special use permit, the large
office campus special use permit shall remain in effect and shall not lapse at
any time as a result of the passage of time or the occurrence or failure to
occur of any event. (Ord. 01-8-23, 8-7-2001)
ARTICLE D. O AND R/C OFFICE AND RESEARCH COMPATIBLE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5D-1: Purpose
9-5D-2: Permitted Uses
9-5D-3: Requirements For Permitted Uses
9-5D-4: Special Uses
9-5D-5: Requirements For Special Uses
9-5D-6: Requirements Of Other Village Ordinances
9-5D-7: Procedures
9-5D-8: Conditions Of Development
9-5D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the office and research compatible district (referred to herein
as the O and R/C district) is to govern the location and development of low
intensity lodging and office special uses for certain properties at the
periphery of the village with frontage on Lake-Cook Road or on the portion of
Saunders Road south of Deerfield Road. Most of these properties adjoin large
parcels zoned for low density, office campus use under the terms of: a)
annexation agreements entered into with the village, or b) the office and
research district one (referred to herein as the O and R1 district). The area,
bulk and special use requirements of this article are intended to permit low
intensity lodging special uses which support the office and research campus
established in the village in the area generally bounded on the west by
Portwine Road, on the south by Lake Cook Road, on the east by Saunders Road and
on the north by single-family residential districts. The lodging special uses
which may be granted in the O and R/C district are intended to be of a nature
that will respond to the specific needs of the corporate residents located in
the village's office and research campus while mitigating adverse impacts to
the remainder of the village. For purposes of this article, "low intensity
lodging special uses" must not be construed solely in terms of floor area
ratio, but must take into account, among other factors, the overall mass and
land coverage of the proposed buildings, the degree to which peak traffic hours
will occur at times other than the peak morning and evening rush hours which
characterize the adjoining office developments and the overall general level of
activity which will be characteristic of the special uses. The area, bulk and
special use requirements of this article are also intended to permit "small
parcel" office special uses on certain parcels with frontage on Saunders Road
which, due to their size and shape, would not ordinarily be developed in a
manner consistent with the office campus approach. The O and R/C district may
also benefit from civic, cultural, religious and educational uses when located
on a parcel of limited size. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 25-02-01, 2-
18-2025)
9-5D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses permitted in the O and R1 district.
Civic, cultural, religious and educational uses when conducted in a building
occupying a lot of less than one (1) acre in size. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999;
amd. Ord. 25-02-01, 2-18-2025)
9-5D-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTED USES:
The requirements for the O and R1 district set forth in sections
9-5C-3 through
9-5C-11 of the zoning code shall be applicable to all permitted uses in the O
and R/C district, except where such requirements are specifically varied by the
terms of an ordinance passed by the village board of trustees granting a
special use under this O and R/C district. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999)
9-5D-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   A "hotel special use" which shall include only the following uses: 1)
hotels, residence inns, daily or extended stay corporate lodging facilities
(each of which shall contain no more than 140 rooms) and 2) one restaurant per
hotel, each having no more than two thousand five hundred (2,500) usable square
feet, provided such restaurants are located within the hotel or lodging
facility. No restaurant building shall have a maximum seating capacity in
excess of three hundred twenty five (325) guests. No delivery or carryout
service shall be permitted in the restaurant except as a courtesy to seated
customers at the conclusion of their meals, to provide catered meals in the
hotel's conference or meeting rooms, or to provide room service to hotel
guests. No meals in the restaurant shall be served using disposable flatware or
china. No restaurant meals shall be served earlier than six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., nor later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. on weekends (excluding room service for hotel guests). No live
entertainment requiring more than two (2) performers at one time shall be
permitted, and such entertainment shall be provided solely as background to
meals served in the restaurant. Alcoholic beverages in the restaurant may be
authorized by the appropriate liquor permit issued by the Riverwoods liquor
commissioner, but such permit shall require that the alcoholic beverages must
be served with meals to restaurant patrons and no later than ten thirty o'clock
(10:30) P.M. on weekdays and eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on weekends.
The waiting area for restaurant patrons shall be designed to serve a clientele
that is waiting to have a sit down meal and shall not serve persons desiring
alcoholic beverages without a meal.
   B.   A "small parcel office compatible special use" which shall include only
office uses meeting all requirements of the O and R1 district, except as
modified under section 9-5D-5 of this article. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999; amd.
Ord. 01-8-26, 8-21-2001; Ord. 21-12-32, 12-21-2021; Ord. 25-02-01, 2-18-2025)
9-5D-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Objectives: The objectives of granting a special use in the O and R/
C district are:
      1.   To permit development that is compatible with the Riverwoods office
and research campus, that provides benefits not likely to be achieved with the
usual development permitted in the O and R1 district, and that would not
otherwise be possible under the strict application of other sections of this
title.
      2.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities.
      3.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, landscape design,
building forms and building relationships with a possible mixing of different
uses in an innovative design.
      4.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and preservation of subsurface water.
      5.   To promote the more efficient use of the land resulting in more
economic networks of utilities, circulation and other facilities.
      6.   To create a method for the enhancement of a woodland appearance and
a more natural, environmental design for a land use which is typically more
commercial in appearance.
      7.   To encourage land use which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare.
   B.   Minimum And Maximum Area: For a hotel special use in the O and R/
C district, the site area shall be no less than six (6) acres and no more than
ten (10) acres. For a small parcel office compatible use, the site area shall
be no less than one (1) acre and no more than eight (8) acres.
   C.   Floor Area Ratio (FAR) And Impermeable Surface Ratio (ISR) And Other
Zoning Requirements: All special uses in the O and R/C district for any site of
more than one (1) acre shall be subject to FAR and ISR limitations of the O and
R1 district, i.e., the FAR shall not exceed 0.14 and ISR shall not exceed 0.31;
except as set forth in subsection D of this section. For each special use in
the O and R/C district, the maximum permitted building height, required yards,
off street parking and loading, buildings per lot, natural areas and
landscaping, access, permitted signage, exterior lighting standards and
mechanical penthouses or accessory buildings may be modified, subject to the
FAR and ISR standards of this district (as modified, if applicable); provided,
however, for a small parcel office compatible special use, the required front
and rear buffer yards imported from the O and R1 district into the O and R/
C district shall not be modified and the sixty foot (60') side buffer yards
imported from the O and R1 district into the O and R/C district shall not be
reduced below thirty feet (30').
   D.   Standards For Modifying FAR, ISR And Building Height; Excellence In
Site Planning: Under the terms of the hotel special use, the board of trustees
may modify the FAR and ISR standards and the maximum permitted building height,
if the project site plan and building design exhibit exceptional adherence to
the purposes and objectives of this article, to provide for a maximum FAR of
0.26, a maximum ISR of 0.55 and a maximum building height of fifty two feet
(52'), except that in the case of a flat roof, up to one-half (1/2) of the
building may have a maximum building height of fifty five feet (55') for the
purposes of creating architectural interest and concealing mechanical
equipment. Under the terms of the small parcel office compatible special use,
the board of trustees may modify the ISR standards (but not the FAR standards),
if the project site plan exhibits exceptional adherence to the purposes and
objectives of this article, to provide for a maximum ISR of 0.38. In addition
to the standards found in section 9-11-9 of this title or in other relevant
ordinances of the village, the following standards shall be used by the board
of trustees to evaluate whether the project site plan exhibits exceptional
adherence to the purposes and objectives of this article:
      1.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site are
preserved and incorporated into the development wherever possible.
      2.   Additional landscaped areas and intensity beyond the minimum
required are provided, preferably exhibiting continuity throughout the
development.
      3.   Adequate building setbacks, open spaces and landscaped buffers are
provided around the perimeter of the property. Open space areas are linked by
open space corridors of reasonable width.
      4.   Building facade design avoids excessively long unbroken walls and
minimizes the total building bulk.
      5.   The floor plans of the hotel or office building have superior
orientation, access and view to adjacent private and public open space.
      6.   Through traffic is discouraged and the intrusion of automobiles into
the landscaped detention features and other natural environments is minimized
while maintaining the convenience of access between the buildings and parking
areas.
      7.   The building orientation minimizes the visual impact on any adjacent
residential areas.
      8.   Storm water detention facilities are designed as a visual amenity
for the project.
      9.   The exterior elevations of the buildings call for the use of higher
grade finishes and materials, such as masonry, granite, marble, stone walls and
standing seam metal roofs, and demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development throughout the entire site. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 01-
8-26, 8-21-2001; Ord. 03-3-5, 3-18-2003; Ord. 21-12-32, 12-21-2021; Ord. 25-02-
01, 2-18-2025)
9-5D-6: REQUIREMENTS OF OTHER VILLAGE ORDINANCES:
Requirements regarding any improvements covered under the Riverwoods
subdivision ordinance 1  or building code 2 , including sidewalks, streets,
curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water lighting, landscaping,
parking, retention/detention facilities, and standards for construction shall
be modified only as specifically provided for in the special use ordinance
authorizing any special use in the O and R/C district. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-
1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
9-5D-7: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures: A hotel special use and small parcel office compatible
special use shall be reviewed as a "special use" in accordance with the
standards for the O and R/C district and the procedures of this section.
Additional requirements regarding the processing of applications, including
public hearing procedures and the requirements for the recording of plats shall
be set forth in various administrative procedure documents, as amended from
time to time. Fees shall be set by the village board, and a list of such shall
be kept on file in the office of the village clerk.
   B.   Applicant: The application for a special use shall be either all of the
owners of record of the property which comprises the office compatible PUD or
the contract purchaser, with consent of all owners, provided that the
application shall be submitted in the name of the owner of record; and that the
party petitioning for the special use shall disclose his interest in the
property, such as an equitable interest via a purchase contract for all or a
portion of the property in question.
   C.   Preapplication Conference:
      1.   The applicant shall be encouraged to request a preapplication
conference with village officials and staff, such as the building official,
village attorney and village engineer. The purposes of such conference shall be
for the applicant to furnish information as to the location, size and uses in
the proposed development and a list of all requested modifications to the
subdivision code and zoning ordinance.
      2.   Following the conference, the building official will inform the
applicant of the results of the preliminary review and of the information,
materials and documentation that must be submitted for a formal application.
      3.   A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) must be paid to the village
by the applicant at the time of the initial preapplication conference.
   D.   Preliminary Site Plan:
      1.   Upon completion of the preapplication procedure, the applicant may
then make formal application to the plan commission requesting a special use
permit for a special use on forms provided by the village, and including copies
of a preliminary site plan  containing the information required by the Village
Subdivision Ordinance 1 . This preliminary site plan shall be the subject of a
public hearing before the Plan Commission, as regulated in Section
9-11-9 of this Title. The application shall also contain any other information
requested by the Plan Commission or the Village Board necessary to reasonably
clarify the proposal and its impact or economic feasibility. Such information
may include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
         a.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the special use and proposing any special
engineering design features and/or traffic regulation devices needed to ensure
the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through and around the site.
         b.   Tax and fiscal impact study detailing the impact the special use
will have on all applicable school districts and other taxing bodies; and
estimates shall be made, as to the projected revenues and expenditures by the
Village attributable to the development.
         c.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height,
size, location, quantities and variety of plant materials; a lighting plan and
such information on storm water drainage as may be required by the Plan
Commission.
         d.   An analysis of the marketability of the demand for proposed
services or uses.
         e.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of the development and a specifications list for materials and
finishes.
      2.   The Village Clerk shall forward one copy of the preliminary site
plan and special use permit documents to each of the following persons within
five (5) working days of receipt thereof from the applicant: Village President
and Trustees, all members of the Plan Commission, the Village Engineer, the
Village Planner and the Village Attorney. The balance of the copies of the
documents shall be held on file by the Village Clerk for use by other public
officials as may be required.
      3.   The Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit applicant in accordance with
applicable statutes.
      4.   Within a reasonable amount of time, usually within forty five (45)
days after the adjournment of the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall
submit in writing its finding of facts and recommendations to the Village Board
and the applicant, based on the standards set forth in Section
9-5D-5 of this Article.
      5.   The Board of Trustees shall approve, approve with conditions and
modifications or reject the preliminary site plan within a reasonable amount of
time, usually within sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting following
the receipt of the written recommendation of the Plan Commission.
         a.   If the preliminary site plan is not approved, the Village Board
may state in writing the reasons for the decision and such writing, if
prepared, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and a copy shall be sent to
the applicant.
         b.   If the preliminary site plan is approved or approved with
conditions and modifications, the Village Board shall authorize the applicant
to submit a final site plan for the hotel special use.
   E.   Final Site Plan:
      1.   Within one year following the approval of the preliminary site plan,
the applicant shall file with the Village a final site plan containing, in
final form, the information required in the preliminary site plan and
additional information required by the Village Subdivision Ordinance 2 .
      2.   The Plan Commission shall review each final site plan with regard to
the plan's conformance to the approved preliminary site plan and to the final
site plan requirements, and shall submit its report and recommendations to the
Village Board, usually within forty five (45) days.
      3.   Minor changes from the approved preliminary site plan may be allowed
in the final site plan without a public hearing, provided such changes are
determined to be minor by the Village Board. A change shall not be considered
minor if it includes any of the following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development.
         b.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall coverage
of structures.
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use.
         d.   A relocation of any street, curb cut or intersection of more than
ten feet (10') in a manner which would increase the problems of traffic
circulation or public utilities, or which would cause a significant negative
impact upon the buffer or open space scheme.
         e.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space.
         f.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading spaces.
         g.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
         h.   A change in the arrangement or location of principal structures
or uses by more than ten feet (10').
         i.   A reduction in total storm water detention capacity or an
increase in the design rate of storm water discharge from the site.
         j.   A change in setbacks, FAR or ISR.
      Changes in addition to or in excess of the limits described above shall
be considered major changes and require submission of a new application which
shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required for the original
application.
      4.   The Village Board, after receipt of the report and recommendations
of the Plan Commission shall review the final site plan, and if it is
determined to be in substantial conformance with the approved preliminary site
plan and in conformance with the final site plan requirements, will authorize
by ordinance the issuance of a special use permit. If any final site plan is
held to be not in substantial conformance with the preliminary site plan or in
conformance with the final site plan requirements, the Village Board shall
inform the applicant of the specific areas found deficient. The applicant may
request from the Village Board an extension of time to bring each final site
plan into conformance and to complete the requirements, or may request a new
public hearing under the procedures established for approval of a preliminary
site plan.
      5.   Once the special use permit is issued, the Village Clerk shall amend
the Official Zoning Map of the Village to show the approved underlying zoning
district, the number of the ordinance approving the special use permit. (Ord.
99-5-11, 5-18-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
2 1. See title 10 of this code.
9-5D-8: CONDITIONS OF DEVELOPMENT:
After the approval of the final site plan, the use of land and construction,
modification or alteration of any buildings or structures within the special
use will be governed by the approved final site plan and all applicable Village
ordinances not specifically waived in the ordinance granting the special use.
In addition, the following conditions apply to the construction pursuant to a
special use:
   A.   Construction in accordance with the final development plan shall
commence within one year. Failure to commence within that period shall, unless
an extension has been granted by the Board of Trustees according to subsection
B of this Section, automatically render null and void the final site plan
approval of the special use, all prior plan approvals upon which final plan
approval depends, including all permits based on such approvals, and the
special use permit.
   B.   The Village Board may extend the time limit for the commencement of
construction as follows: If a delay, or anticipated delay, is caused by
governmental action without fault on the part of the developer, an extension
may be granted for a period not longer than the period of the governmental
delay. For good cause shown, an extension may be granted for such period of
time as the Village Board deems appropriate.
   C.   No permit shall be issued for any construction pursuant to a special
use until the developer posts with the Village an irrevocable letter of credit
running to the Village in an amount sufficient to cover the full cost,
including engineering, legal and inspection fees and costs, plus twenty five
percent (25%) of such total, to ensure the satisfactory installation of all
streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention areas and all other
subdivision improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be based on
confirmed estimates approved by the Village Engineer and the letter of credit
shall be reviewed by the Village Attorney for conformance to Village
ordinances. (Ord. 99-5-11, 5-18-1999)
ARTICLE E. TRANSITIONAL BUSINESS OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5E-1: Purpose
9-5E-2: Procedure For Designation
9-5E-3: Application Of B-1 District Regulations
9-5E-4: Permitted Uses
9-5E-5: Special Uses
9-5E-6: Accessory Uses
9-5E-7: Occupancy Permit
9-5E-8: District Standards
9-5E-9: Performance Standards
9-5E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the transitional business overlay district is to provide
flexibility in land use, layout and design for areas that, while suitable for a
mixed use planned development in the B-1 neighborhood business district, are
located next to the limited industrial district of a neighboring community.
This overlay district will allow uses that are compatible with the uses of the
neighboring limited industrial district while allowing for a transition to the
mixed use planned development of the B-1 neighborhood business district. All
uses in this overlay district shall be maintained and operated in such a manner
as will not limit, restrict or impair the health, comfort, safety and welfare
of adjoining property owners and the value and enjoyment of adjoining
properties. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-2: PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION:
The village board, upon the recommendation of the plan commission and in
accordance with the procedures for amending the zoning map set forth in this
title, may designate any area located within the B-1 neighborhood business
district as a business overlay district. The area so designated shall be known
as an overlay to the B-1 neighborhood business district, and shall be assigned
the designation "TBO" on the zoning map. References in this chapter to the TBO
district shall mean the transitional business overlay district. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-3: APPLICATION OF B-1 DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The requirements for lot size, lot coverage, building height, yards or
setbacks, number of principal buildings on a lot and other height, bulk and use
requirements shall be determined by the applicable regulations of the B-
1 neighborhood business district; provided, however, the village board, in the
ordinance granting a special use in the TBO district, may modify such
requirements of the B-1 neighborhood business district, and in such event the
owner shall not be required to obtain a variance from B-1 neighborhood business
district regulations. If a conflict arises between the regulations of the B-
1 neighborhood business district and this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall control. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-4: PERMITTED USES:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the permitted uses of the TBO
district shall be as listed below. Only those uses specifically listed below
shall be considered permitted uses:
   Any permitted use in the B-1 neighborhood business district.
   Administrative offices accessory to the principal use located on the
premises.
   Open space, noncommercial parks and nature preserves.
   Public uses, including wind energy conversion systems.
   Retail use accessory to the principal use located on the premises, but not
in excess of one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area in the building in
which sales are conducted, and provided the parking requirements for such
retail use are satisfied.
   Signs as permitted by the Riverwoods sign ordinance (title 12 of this code),
except as otherwise specified by a special use permit. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-5: SPECIAL USES:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the special uses that may be allowed
in the TBO district shall be as follows:
   Container rental facility.
   Garden supply center.
   Lumber and material sales.
   Mixed use planned development, pursuant to article B of this chapter. The
mixed use planned development is the only special use allowed in the B-
1 neighborhood business district that may be allowed for any property in the
TBO district.
   Tree care contractor.
   Wood waste recycling center, if operated by a tree care contractor, provided
that no wood waste recycling center shall be allowed as a special use unless
the chipping, grinding or processing of any wood waste prohibits the on site
processing of stumps or logs exceeding three inches (3") in diameter. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-6: ACCESSORY USES:
If the village board approves a special use for property located in the TBO
district, the ordinance granting such special use may also authorize the
following accessory uses, buildings or structures and impose conditions upon
the construction, use and operation thereof as the village board deems
appropriate to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare:
   Aboveground fuel storage tank which is licensed and maintained in accordance
with all applicable state and county requirements.
   Caretaker's dwelling for caretakers and members of their immediate family,
when located on the premises where the caretaker is acting in such capacity.
   Outside display, storage or repair of goods, equipment, materials, wood
waste, machinery or products (including mulch).
   Outside storage of logs exceeding three inches (3") in diameter, subject to
such conditions and limitations as may be specified in the ordinance approving
the accessory use.
   Outside truck and vehicle parking, provided each vehicle is operable and is
used in the operation of the principal use being conducted. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-7: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
An annual occupancy permit shall be required for any special use located in the
TBO district. No occupancy permit or any building permit for properties in the
TBO district shall be issued unless the applicant provides a written
description of the activity to be conducted on the site, which shall include:
   A.   A survey showing the location of any storage areas, waste disposal
areas, abatement devices, and other facilities necessary for the activity
proposed;
   B.   A description of the products, materials, or goods which will be
utilized on the site and in the operation of the use proposed;
   C.   Any other data or certifications as may be reasonably required by the
director of community services to reach a determination that the use and
occupancy proposed will not violate any applicable codes or ordinances of the
village.
When applying for a renewal of such occupancy permit, the applicant shall
notify the village of any changes in any of the above information by filing the
appropriate renewal form with the village. If there have been changes that
cause prior submissions to be inaccurate, the village may require updated
submissions. The property owner is responsible for making sure such occupancy
permit is renewed annually. The director of community services or his
designated agents shall have the right, upon reasonable notice to the owner of
any property requiring an occupancy permit in the TBO district, to come onto
the property for periodic inspections to ensure that the products, materials,
or goods which are utilized on the site and in the operation of the use conform
to the description provided in the occupancy permit. Any use requiring an
occupancy permit in the TBO district shall conform to the requirements of all
published codes adopted by reference in this code and all other laws,
ordinances and regulations of all jurisdictions having authority over such
occupancy or use. Violations of the provisions of such codes, laws, ordinances
or regulations may result in the revocation of the occupancy permit for said
use or occupancy if, in the opinion of the director of community services, the
occupancy or use does not conform to the requirements of occupancy permit or if
any unforeseen conditions pose an immediate threat to the health, safety, or
welfare of the village. Any appeal of such decision shall be heard by the
village board, whose determination shall be final and binding. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-8: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
   A.   Accessory uses shall be customarily incidental to the principal uses.
   B.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair of
goods, materials, machinery or products shall take place without creating
disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining properties and
shall take place within completely enclosed buildings, unless authorized as an
accessory use.
   C.   All outside display or storage of goods, materials, machinery or
products outside of any principal or accessory structures is prohibited unless
authorized as an accessory use.
   D.   As a condition to allowing outdoor truck and vehicle parking as an
accessory use, the village board may require that such trucks and equipment
loaded on vehicles used in the operation of the business may only be parked in
areas with appropriate screening and at a distance of not less than three
hundred feet (300') from a residential district in the village. In no event
shall any truck or other vehicle stand or be parked within three hundred feet
(300') of a residential district in the village with its engine, compressor, or
any other motor running except for that period of time necessary to load or
unload the truck or vehicle.
   E.   If required by the village board, an owner applying for issuance of an
occupancy permit or building permit for any property in the TBO district shall
submit a plan addressing the specifics for pedestrian and vehicular circulation
and architectural and engineering plans for any proposed new buildings (such
plans shall bear the signature and seal of the appropriate qualified
professionals) for approval by the village board as to compliance with the
purpose of this chapter and other village ordinances. Such approval shall be
required prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit or building permit for
any property in the TBO district. The village board may refer the proposal to
the plan commission for review and recommendation. The village board may
require such design professionals to certify that the performance standards set
forth in this chapter will be complied with based upon the submitted plans and
documents. The village reserves the right to conduct its own investigation to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Renewals of
occupancy certificates when no material changes are present in the application
shall not require village board approval.
   F.   1. If required by the village board, those portions of property not
devoted to buildings, pavement or other permanent improvements or required for
the operation of the business shall be landscaped and well maintained.
"Landscaping" shall mean the use of trees and a ground cover defined as grass,
shrubs or other material allowing water to seep through the ground. So as to
ensure an overall landscaping scheme, the owner shall prepare a landscaping
plan for submission to the village prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit
or building permit. Such plan shall include the location, size and species of
all trees, shrubs and all plant material. All landscape plans must show the
proposed land slope with a two foot (2') contour interval, all proposed
plantings, drainage facilities, pavements and other proposed facilities. The
landscape plan shall also include a replacement and maintenance plan that
specifies the care activities for plantings and the timely replacement of dead,
dying or diseased plants or of specimens rejected by the village as
nonconforming to the approved plant specifications shown in the plan.
      2.   Along any district boundary line which abuts or adjoins a
residential district in the village, the village board may require that there
shall be provided, immediately adjacent to the residential district boundary
line, a solid wall, fence, or hedge constructed and maintained to form a screen
not less than six feet (6') in height. Such screen shall be required prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy
may be issued if the village forester determines the installation of said
screen may be delayed due to seasonal conditions.
   G.   Parking areas, building exteriors and all other parts of the tract
visible from the public way shall be maintained in an attractive, well kept
condition. An appearance plan for all proposed buildings and structures must be
submitted for the village board's approval. When existing buildings only are
described in the application, the village board may accept photographs and
narrative descriptions of facade or other improvements, if any.
   H.   Any applicant requesting a special use in the TBO district shall be
required to follow the procedures for obtaining a special use as set forth in
section
9-11-9 of this title and shall satisfy the performance standards set forth in
this chapter, except that if a special use is requested for a mixed use planned
development, then the applicant shall also follow the mixed use planned
development procedures set forth in article B of this chapter. Additional
requirements for noise abatement concerning placement of equipment, type and
size of equipment, and hours of operation may be set forth as conditions in any
ordinance approving the special use. If the village board determines that any
change proposed to an ordinance granting a special use in the TBO district is a
minor change, the village board may approve such change by ordinance duly
adopted without a public hearing before the plan commission. Any ordinance
adopted to amend an ordinance granting a special use shall be recorded in the
recorder's office of Lake County, Illinois. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5E-9: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
It is the intent of these regulations to require that the use of land and
buildings in the TBO district shall be established and maintained in order that
each use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of
emission of noise, odor, glare, vibration, smoke, dust, liquid wastes and other
nuisances. Specifically, all uses shall operate in conformance with this code
and shall be limited by the following:
   A.   Noise Emitted To Residential Districts: No use shall cause or allow the
emission of sound from any noise source located in the TBO district, to any
receiving residential district in the village which exceeds the allowable
octave band sound pressure level specified in the following table, when
measured at any point within such receiving residential district:
TABLE OF MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVEL (DECIBELS)
Octave Band (Frequency) Cycles Per Sound Residential District Adjoining TBO
                                         District
Octave Band (Frequency) Cycles Per Sound Residential District Adjoining TBO
                                         District
   0 to 75                            72
   75 to 150                          67
   150 to 300                         59
   300 to 600                         52
   600 to 1,200                       46
   1,200 to 2,400                     40
   2,400 to 4,800                     34
   Above 4,800                        32
 
Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the above performance standards,
provided that such noises shall be capable of being accurately measured with
such equipment. Noises capable of being measured, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuation of the needle of
the sound meter, with a variation of not more than plus or minus two (±2)
decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, such as those of irregular and
intermittent nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to
adjacent areas. Test procedures to determine whether the emission of sound is
in conformance with this regulation shall be in substantial conformity with
standards and recommended practices established by the American National
Standards Institute, Inc., (ANSI) and the latest revisions thereof, including
ANSI S1.1 - 1960, ANSI S1.6 - 1967, ANSI S1.8 - 1969, ANSI S1.2 - 1962, ANSI
S1.4 - 1971 - type 1 precision, ANSI S1.11 - 1966, and ANSI S1.13 - 1971 field
method. The foregoing sound level restrictions shall apply to all trucks and
vehicles under the control of the property user or owner, including idling
engines and trailer, but shall not apply to vehicles in process of entering and
leaving the property. The foregoing sound level restrictions shall not apply to
emergency warning devices and unregulated safety relief valves or to sound
emitted from equipment used for temporary construction during hours permitted
for such construction. An ordinance granting a special use for operation of a
wood waste recycling facility may specify the above standards or other
standards to govern the emission of sound from the operation of a tub grinder.
   B.   Odors: The emission of odorous matter in such quantities as to be
readily detectable at any point along a property line, or which is unwholesome,
offensive, harmful or injurious to the public health, comfort or welfare, is
prohibited. The measurement of the threshold odor shall be in accordance with
the American Society For Testing And Materials method ASTM E679-79, "Standard
Practice For Determination Of Odor And Taste Thresholds By A Forced-Choice
Ascending Concentration Series Method Of Limits". (Current edition approved on
August 15, 1991, and published in October 1991, as ASTM E679-919, which is
hereby adopted by reference.) Detailed plans for the prevention of odors
crossing property lines may be required before the issuance of an occupancy
certificate or building permit.
   C.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building in such manner as not to create
a public nuisance or hazard. Exposed sources of light shall be controlled so
that direct or indirect illumination from any source within the property line
shall not cause illumination in excess of the requirements of the residential
outdoor lighting ordinance (title 5, chapter 6 of this code) when measured at
any zoning lot line of a residential district. The measurement of glare or
light shall be made at the property line using a light meter operated by a
trained operator through an independent testing agency. Any lights used for
exterior illumination shall be planned, erected and maintained to direct light
away from adjoining properties or public rights of way.
   D.   Vibration: Any operation or activity shall not cause earthborne
vibrations in excess of the following values. Column I shall apply at or beyond
the property line, column II shall apply at or beyond a residence district
boundary line. Vibration shall be expressed as displacement in inches and shall
be measured with a three (3) component measuring system:
 
Frequency Cycles Per Second I                   II
                            Displacement Inches Displacement Inches
   0 to 10               0.0008              0.0004
   10 to 20              0.0005              0.0002
   20 to 30              0.0002              0.0001
   30 to 40              0.0002              0.0001
   40 and over           0.0001              0.0001
 
Impact vibrations (discrete pulses that do not exceed 100 impulses per minute)
shall not cause in excess of twice the displacement values above.
   E.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: In addition to the performance standards
specified herein, the emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or
quantity as to endanger or be detrimental to the public health, safety, comfort
or welfare is declared to be a public nuisance. No outdoor burning or fires
shall be allowed.
   F.   Gases, Toxic Or Noxious Matter: No toxic materials shall be detectable
at any point beyond the lot line, either at ground level or habitable
elevation, whichever is more restrictive.
   G.   Waste: All sewage wastes shall be treated and disposed of in such
manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to the
classification assigned to the receiving waters by the village, the state of
Illinois, and the United States environmental protection agency. Approval by
the Illinois environmental protection agency of all plans for waste disposal
facilities shall be required before issuance of any occupancy permit or
building permit. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
ARTICLE F. B-2 BUSINESS COMPATIBLE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5F-1: Purpose
9-5F-2: Permitted Uses
9-5F-3: Special Uses
9-5F-4: Lot Area Requirements
9-5F-5: Buildings On Lot And Accessory Uses
9-5F-6: Building Height
9-5F-7: Yard Requirements
9-5F-8: Off Street Parking
9-5F-9: Limitations On Intensity Of Use
9-5F-10: Application For Special Use
9-5F-11: Requirements For Special Uses In The B-2 Business Compatible District
9-5F-1: PURPOSE:
All properties in the B-2 business compatible district shall be contiguous to
property classified in the B-1 neighborhood business district or the
transitional business overlay (TBO) district and shall have access to Milwaukee
Avenue, Deerfield Road, Lake Cook Road or Saunders Road by passage over private
streets or easements that are not normally used by properties located in any
residential district. Subject to the foregoing restrictions on contiguity and
access, the properties in the B-2 business compatible district may be located
adjacent to residential districts. Unlike properties located in the B-
1 neighborhood business district and TBO district, which have frontage on major
arterial streets and enjoy visibility appropriate for their uses, the
properties in the B-2 business compatible district lack such frontage. The B-
2 business compatible district therefore provides appropriate uses for those
properties having no street frontage on major arterial streets yet having
access to such arterial streets without impacting residential areas. To
accomplish this purpose, the B-2 business compatible district will allow
single-family dwellings, as well as certain social, cultural, educational,
conference and office uses which will be limited in intensity to minimize
impact upon adjoining residential districts. All uses in this district shall be
maintained and operated in such a manner as will not limit, restrict or impair
the health, comfort, safety and welfare of adjoining residential district
property owners and the value and enjoyment of their properties. (Ord. 10-5-9,
5-18-2010)
9-5F-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are the only permitted uses in the B-2 compatible district:
   Permitted uses authorized in the R-1 42,000 square feet single-family
residential district.
   Cultural center.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a cultural center shall be a permitted use
only while it operates in accordance with the limitations on intensity of use
described in section
9-5F-9 of this article. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-3: SPECIAL USES:
Subject to the provisions of this article, one or more of the following special
uses may be allowed in this district, if authorized by the village board:
   Conference facility.
   Early childhood facility.
   General office use.
   Private dining facility.
   Private instructional facility. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: If a single-family detached dwelling is the principal use,
there shall be not less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet of lot area;
otherwise there shall be not less than one hundred eighty thousand feet
(180,000') of lot area. The lot area shall exclude the land lying within the
right of way of any streets, roads and private easements for ingress and egress
to such lot.
   B.   Frontage: No lot shall have frontage of less than one hundred twenty
feet (120') or an average lot width of less than one hundred fifty feet (150').
(Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-5: BUILDINGS ON LOT AND ACCESSORY USES:
There shall not be more than one principal building per zoning lot. In the case
of a cultural center, a second building erected and occupied solely as a
caretaker's residence shall be allowed as an accessory use and building but
shall not be subject to the size limits of section
9-2-6-6 of this title; however, the square footage of the caretaker's residence
shall constitute less than twenty five percent (25%) of the square footage of
the principal building. The caretaker's building shall be a single-family
dwelling for the caretaker and his or her immediate family. The caretaker shall
be employed in such capacity by the owner of the principal use on the property.
(Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') above grade level.
(Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-7: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following yard requirements apply, provided that the village board may
modify these requirements in an ordinance authorizing a special use permit in
the district:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be provided a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or other accessory building or structure shall
be located in the required front yard, except as permitted in section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be provided two (2) side yards, each of which
shall be not less than forty feet (40') in width, measured perpendicular to
each side lot line. On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on each street
side of such lot, except that the buildable width of the lot shall not be
reduced to less than sixty five feet (65'). In order to maintain a buildable
width of lot no less than sixty five feet (65'), the two (2) side yards shall
be reduced in width equally. No swimming pool, tennis court, deck, patio or
other accessory building or structure shall be located in the required side
yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than one
hundred feet (100'), measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. No swimming
pool, tennis court, deck, patio or accessory building or structure shall be
located in the required rear yard, except as permitted by section
9-2-6-8 of this title. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, the off street parking
requirements shall be based on a minimum of one space for every three (3) seats
(whether fixed seats or bench seats, based on the maximum seating capacity for
persons intended to gather for events or assembly) while also providing parking
spaces for accessory uses. The village board may modify the requirements for
the amount of off street parking required for a special use in the ordinance
granting the special use to reflect the proposed uses and limitations on such
uses set forth in section
9-5F-9 of this article. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-9: LIMITATIONS ON INTENSITY OF USE:
The following limitations shall apply to the use and operation of a cultural
center in the district:
   A.   Definitions:
      EVENT OF PUBLIC INTEREST: Any regular activity or other use of the
cultural center which is sponsored by the cultural center as a means of
furthering its mission and purpose and is attended by more than seventy five
(75) persons. Events of public interest may include events open to the general
public, such as Midsummer Festival (an annual celebration held on a Saturday
during the last half of June), New Year's Eve and theatrical or musical
performances by visiting companies or artists. Events of public interest may
require that tickets or entrance fees be purchased by those attending.
      PRIVATE MEMBER RECEPTIONS: Private banquets and receptions for members
and their invited guests.
      REGULAR ACTIVITY: An activity intended to be conducted in a cultural
center by its members (as recognized under the bylaws or organizational charter
of the center) and their invited guests. Examples of regular activities include
church services, Sunday school, lunch for members, use of the center's library,
museum and social areas, private member receptions, and presentation of
cultural programs, such as films, art exhibits, lectures or music. Regular
activities do not include use of the cultural center as a daily school for
children. The general public is not invited to participate in regular
activities.
      RENTAL EVENT: Any event or use of the cultural center under a special use
permit authorized by the village board pursuant to this article. For example,
each use as a private dining facility, when that special use is granted,
constitutes a rental event.
   B.   Total Number Of Events: The total number of events of public interest
shall not exceed forty (40) events in any calendar year nor two (2) events on
any weekend, except that for a limited season of three (3) weeks each summer,
theatrical performances may be held twice a day on Friday, Saturday and Sunday,
on three (3) consecutive weekends.
   C.   Total Number Of Outdoor Events: Not more than four (4) events of public
interest shall be conducted outdoors in any year, and each such outdoor event
of public interest shall be moved indoors by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. When
being conducted outdoors, an event of public interest shall be positioned to
maximize screening and remoteness from adjacent residential areas.
   D.   Maximum Number Of Attendees: The maximum number of people that may
attend any event of public interest shall be two hundred (200), but for the
celebration of Midsummer Festival, the maximum attendance shall be two hundred
fifty (250). For purposes of counting attendees, any number above ten (10)
employees and contractors who are engaged for the purpose of catering, serving
and entertaining guests, shall be included in the count.
   E.   Restrictions On Alcohol And Ending Time: At events of public interest,
no alcohol shall be served after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., no live music shall
be played on the property (indoors or outdoors) after ten thirty o'clock (10:
30) P.M. and all guests shall leave the premises by eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M., except that the following events will be subject to extended time limits:
      1.   For the celebration of Midsummer Festival, and for no more than five
(5) additional events of public interest held in any calendar year, no alcohol
shall be served after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, the music shall be
quieted after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and end by twelve thirty o'clock
(12:30) A.M. and all guests shall leave the premises no later than one o'clock
(1:00) A.M.
      2.   For New Year's Eve, no alcohol shall be served after one o'clock (1:
00) A.M., the music shall be quieted after one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and end by
one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. and all guests shall leave the premises no later
than two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
At all indoor events of public interest, the noise level shall be monitored and
controlled within appropriate levels so as not to disturb adjacent residential
areas.
   F.   Parking And Outdoor Lighting: Parking for events of public interest
shall make use of parking areas positioned to maximize screening and remoteness
from adjacent residential areas. Outdoor street lighting controlled by the
cultural center will be turned off at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   G.   Special Use Restrictions To Control: If a special use in this district
is granted, the village board may consider the total number and intensity of
rental events as opposed to events of public interest for purposes of applying
the restrictions on intensity of use set forth in this section. Any
modifications to the restrictions in this section set forth in the ordinance
approving such special use shall be controlling. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-10: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
An application for a special use permit in the district shall require
submission of a site development plan, landscape plan, traffic analysis,
architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the design features
of the development and a specifications list for materials and finishes, and
other related documents, as the plan commission or village board shall require.
Any applicant requesting a special use in the B-2 business compatible district
shall be required to follow the procedures for obtaining a special use as set
forth in section
9-11-9 of this title. If the village board determines that any change proposed
to an ordinance granting a special use in the B-2 Business Compatible District
is a minor change, the Village Board may approve such change by ordinance duly
adopted without a public hearing before the Plan Commission. Any ordinance
adopted to amend an ordinance granting a special use shall be recorded in the
Recorder's Office of Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
9-5F-11: REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USES IN THE B-2 BUSINESS COMPATIBLE DISTRICT:
Subject to the general standards and procedures for the granting of special
uses as required by this title, the Village Board may authorize one or more of
the special uses described in this article, provided the Village Board finds
that the applicant satisfies the criteria set forth below:
   A.   The applicant will consolidate the site into a single lot of record
under the Village's subdivision control ordinance, if required by the Village
Board. Fee simple title to the site shall be vested in a single owner.
   B.   The impervious surface ratio (ISR), as applied to special uses
described in this article, is the area covered by buildings, parking, drives,
aisles, loading areas, patios or other paved areas, divided by the site area in
accordance with the following formula:
         ISR = Ab + Ap + Al + Ao
            S
      Where:
 
Ab = Building area, the area covered by buildings from the maximum outside
     dimensions.
Ap = Parking areas, all paved areas used for parking or access to those areas.
Al = Loading areas, all paved areas used for loading or access to those areas.
Ao = Other areas, all other paved areas, including patios, walks, entryways,
     etc.
S  = Site area, the actual area of the site, minus the existing road rights-of-
     way and ingress and egress easements.
 
The maximum ISR for the site shall not exceed 0.25 unless such requirement is
modified by the Village Board in the ordinance granting the special use. (Ord.
10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
   C.   The exterior of all sites adjoining any residential district shall have
a sixty foot (60') planted buffer yard. There shall be no parking or drives
permitted in buffer yards, but parking shall be allowed in the remaining
portions of the required yards, if allowed by the terms of the site development
plan approved for the site. Access roads may cross the buffer yards when
required for access, but shall be oriented to minimize the areas consumed by
such crossings. In order to be compatible with or promote the wooded character
of the Village, buffer yards shall be landscaped to promote the establishment
and conservation of natural wooded areas, so that eighty percent (80%) of their
area is in natural plantings, as recommended by the Village Forester. No more
than twenty percent (20%) of the total area may be in water features, unless
waived by the Village Engineer and approved by the Village Board as a condition
of the special use. Buffer yards shall be planted with canopy trees, understory
trees and shrubs interbedded to form a planting arrangement with all three (3)
heights of plant material intermixed. The ground cover may be bark or wood
chips, natural unmowed grasses, flowers or ground covers, as approved by the
Village Forester. Tree reforestation plans shall be prepared when required
under the Village tree and woodland protection ordinance. If woodland areas
exist on the site, the foregoing requirements for buffering may be waived to
the extent such requirements would conflict with the goals of the Village's
tree and woodland protection ordinance. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010; amd. Ord. 18-
03-05, 3-6-2018)
   D.   No application for a special use permit shall be approved unless the
Village Board, in addition to making the required findings under section
9-11-9 of this title, shall find that the proposal substantially adheres to the
following design criteria:
      1.   The site satisfies the minimum lot area requirements set forth in
this article. (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
      2.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site are
preserved and incorporated into the development wherever possible, including
compliance with the buffer yard requirements set forth in this article and the
terms and conditions of the Village's tree and woodland protection ordinance.
(Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
      3.   The buildings on the site are oriented in a manner that creates
harmonious development and minimizes the visual impact on any adjacent areas,
particularly residential areas.
      4.   Stormwater detention facilities, if required, comply with the
requirements of the watershed development ordinance (title 11, chapter 1 of
this Code) and are designed as a visual amenity for the project, wherever
possible.
      5.   The exterior elevations of the buildings demonstrate the use of
higher grade finishes and present an architecturally harmonious development
throughout the entire site; for sites adjoining a residential district, the
exterior elevations of the buildings incorporate residential design features in
order that the buildings harmonize with the appearance and general character of
the residential area.
      6.   Lighting standards and signage on the site conform to the
requirements of this Code. If adjoining a residential district, outdoor
lighting conforms to the requirements of the residential outdoor lighting
ordinance (title 5, chapter 6 of this Code). (Ord. 10-5-9, 5-18-2010)
CHAPTER 6
TREE AND WOODLAND PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-6-1: Title
9-6-2: Findings Of The Board Of Trustees
9-6-3: Authority
9-6-4: Intent And Purpose
9-6-5: Definitions
9-6-6: Tree Removal Permit Required
9-6-7: Tree Emergencies
9-6-8: Elective Or Unpermitted Tree Removal
9-6-9: Adoption Of Woodland Delineation Parcel Maps
9-6-10: Limitations On Removal Of Protected Woodland
9-6-11: Woodland Removal Permit Required
9-6-12: Ecological Mitigation Plan
9-6-13: Appeals
9-6-14: Penalty
9-6-15: Conflict With Other Zoning Provisions
9-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the RIVERWOODS TREE AND
WOODLAND PROTECTION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-2: FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The findings of the Board of Trustees adopted in ordinance no. 05-2-2, on
February 1, 2005, are re-stated as subsections A through D of this section, and
the Board of Trustees further adopts the findings in subsections E, F and G of
this section. The terms "native trees" and "native woodlands", when used in
these findings, shall have the meanings given in section
9-6-5 of this chapter.
   A.   The Plan Commission of the Village of Riverwoods on June 3, 2004
conducted a public hearing on the question of adopting a zoning text amendment
under this title for the purpose of protecting woodlands and submitted its
report to the Board of Trustees recommending that a woodland protection
ordinance be considered to protect woodland areas in the Village.
   B.   The Board of Trustees conducted a public hearing and town meeting on
December 7, 2004, and received testimony at that time from Mr. Charles Stewart,
President, Urban Forest Management, Inc., who served as Village Forester
beginning in 1976; Dr. George Ware, Ph.D., Dendrologist Emeritus at the Morton
Arboretum; Mr. Steve Swanson, Director of the Kennecott Grove National Historic
Area in Glenview, Illinois; Mr. Mark O'Leary, M.S., Senior Ecologist with
Applied Ecological Services, Inc., an ecological consulting, contracting and
restoration firm; and Mr. Patrick Glenn, P.E., Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
("GHA"), the engineering firm serving as Village Engineer. At such town
meeting, GHA presented its report entitled "Report on Woodland/Turfgrass
Hydrology, Using NRCC TR-55 Hydrological Methods", dated December 2004,
prepared by GHA (the "GHA Report").
   C.   The Urban Forest Research Unit of the USDA Forest Service, Northeastern
Research Station in Syracuse, New York, was established in 1978, to investigate
the effects of urban forests and their management on human health and
environmental quality, and it has developed the urban forest effects (UFORE)
model, which model is used to quantify the following:
      1.   Urban forest structure by land use type (e.g., species composition,
tree density, tree health, leaf area, leaf and tree biomass, species diversity,
etc.);
      2.   Hourly amount of pollution removed by the urban forest, and its
associated percent air quality improvement throughout a year. Pollution removal
is calculated for ozone, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and
particulate matter (<10 microns);
      3.   Hourly urban forest volatile organic compound emissions and the
relative impact of tree species on net ozone and carbon monoxide formation
throughout the year;
      4.   Total carbon stored and net carbon annually sequestered by the urban
forest;
      5.   Effects of trees on building energy use and consequent effects on
carbon dioxide emissions from power plants;
      6.   Compensatory value of the forest, as well as the value of air
pollution removal and carbon storage and sequestration;
      7.   Tree pollen allergenicity index;
      8.   Potential impact of gypsy moth and Asian longhorned beetle
infestation;
      9.   Tree transpiration.
The Urban Forest Research Unit of the USDA Forest Service, Northeastern
Research Station in Syracuse, New York, has modeled numerous cities in the
United States and published its results quantifying the direct, favorable
ecological and financial benefits of maintaining urban forests.
   D.   After reviewing the expert testimony and reports presented to the Board
of Trustees and the published research available to quantify the economic
benefits of urban forests, the Board of Trustees adopts the following findings
as the basis for adoption of this chapter and intends that this chapter be
interpreted in the light of such findings:
      1.   Approximately ninety percent (90%) of the areas within the Village's
R-1, R-2 and R-3 Single-Family Residential Zoning Districts (excluding
subdivisions developed as planned unit developments) are located within the
mixed-hardwood forest and woodland landscape that is the characteristic natural
ecological system in the Village.
      2.   In the Village's woodland ecosystem, the canopy, understory and
ground plane (herbaceous) levels each have characteristic species.
      3.   The natural woodland ecology in the Village is modified and
pressured by human activity and development, the presence of deer herds, in
particular, and other wildlife and insect populations, and the proliferation of
non-native, invasive species, such as buckthorn and garlic mustard. Human
activity in the form of replacing native understory and ground plane plants
with turfgrass is also a negative factor in the maintenance of healthy
woodlands because each of the three (3) native components of the woodlands -
the canopy, understory and ground plane - is necessary for the continued
regeneration of native trees and plants.
      4.   Since 1976, the Village's woodlands have diminished in quantity and
in the quality of the plant community as a result of the pressure factors that
are described above. As a result, the Village's woodlands have become more
fragmented and have suffered a loss in the ability to regenerate the more
desirable species of trees and plants of the native landscape.
      5.   For the natural woodland ecology in the Village to remain self-
sustaining, it is necessary to take steps to reduce the further loss and
fragmentation of woodland areas resulting from human activity in order that the
woodland trees and plants can more readily resist the pressure factors
resulting from non-human factors.
      6.   The Village should continue to monitor the work of the Lake County
Forest Preserve District in maintaining the deer population at a level that can
be supported by the environment; the Village should continue to work with other
governmental units to minimize and control infestations of gypsy moth, Asian
longhorned beetles and similar pests; and the Village should continue to
support woodland restoration by educational efforts and by providing assistance
to residents seeking to eliminate non-native, invasive species from their
properties. The actions referred to in this section should be coordinated with
the provisions in this chapter regulating the removal of native trees and
woodlands to establish the best possible conditions for the health of the
woodlands.
      7.   The woodlands in the Village, as demonstrated in the GHA Report,
significantly reduce the volume and rate of stormwater runoff produced under
various land use conditions in the Village in comparison to the volume and rate
of stormwater runoff in turfgrass lawn areas. The GHA Report is incorporated in
this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Lessening the removal of herbaceous
plants and understory trees and the substitution of turfgrass in place thereof
will reduce stormwater runoff and lessen the severity of local flooding in the
Village.
      8.   The maintenance of a healthy woodland environment in the Village
provides the following benefits: shade and cooling; control of erosion;
filtering of water pollutants from stormwater; recharging of aquifers used by
residents for drinking water; replenishment of the groundwater table;
maintenance of flows into wetlands and streams; cleansing of air of pollutants;
mitigation of global warming by absorbing greenhouse gases; and promotion of a
biologically diverse community of micro-organisms, plants and animals,
protecting some species from extinction while preserving genetic diversity. The
urban forest effects (UFORE) model developed by the Urban Forest Research Unit
of the USDA Forest Service, Northeastern Research Station in Syracuse, New
York, has been used to quantify the dollar benefits of urban forests, and such
models indicate that there is a significant quantifiable benefit from woodlands
in respect of the benefits described above, and such findings demonstrate that
the Village's urban forest cover produces significant quantifiable benefits.
      9.   The regulations proposed in this chapter, in the severest case of
applicability, nevertheless will allow for a building envelope which is
sufficient for the construction of a main dwelling and multiple combinations of
accessory uses (such as a tennis court and swimming pool and an accessory
building) that, in size and extent, would be comparable to intensely developed,
existing residential properties in the Village except in the degree to which
woodlands have been removed. The protection of woodlands will promote higher
property values for woodland areas in the Village. The regulations proposed in
this chapter will not unreasonably restrict development nor constitute an
arbitrary and capricious exercise of Municipal powers.
      10.   The preservation of woodland areas in the Village will provide many
essential benefits to the community as a whole, as described in the foregoing
sections, and, accordingly, the adoption of a long-term policy of preserving
woodland areas is necessary to safeguard, protect and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the Village and
surrounding areas.
   E.   The protection of native woodlands depends especially on the adoption
of a long-term policy of promoting the regeneration of native trees which
populated the native woodlands once prevalent throughout the Village. In
particular, the preservation and regeneration of native trees in the Village
will promote the repair of ecologically disturbed areas and the gradual
restoration of native woodlands. The adoption of these regulations, while still
allowing for the reasonable improvement of land within the Village, is intended
to accomplish, where possible, the following specific objectives:
      1.   To protect native trees as an important public resource enhancing
the quality of life and the general welfare of the Village and enhancing its
unique character and physical, historical, and aesthetic environment;
      2.   To protect, maintain, and enhance the ecological quality and long-
term viability of native woodlands and the essential character of those areas
throughout the community;
      3.   To enhance and preserve the air quality of the Village through the
filtering effect of trees on air pollutants;
      4.   To reduce noise within the Village through the baffle and barrier
effect of trees on the spread of noise;
      5.   To reduce topsoil erosion through the soil retention effect of tree
roots;
      6.   To reduce energy consumption through the wind break and shade
effects of trees when they are properly preserved on the lot;
      7.   To preserve and enhance nesting areas for birds and other wildlife
which in turn assist in the control of insects;
      8.   To reduce stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith and
replenish ground water supplies; and
      9.   To protect and increase property values.
   F.   Applied Ecological Services, Inc. (AES), as Village Ecologist, has
advised the Village on the general location of native woodland communities. In
2015 - 2016, the Village Ecologist conducted various types of inventories of
the vegetation communities within the Village to map vegetation community
boundaries, such as native woodlands (mesic savanna, northern flatwoods, mesic
woodland, dry-mesic woodland, and floodplain forest), wet prairie and marsh
complexes.
      1.   The Village Ecologist has prepared a report dated May 2016,
summarizing these inventories, the historic and current ecological conditions
of each vegetation community and to the extent possible, floristic quality of
these areas, and developed a summary of recommended management tasks for
managing the vegetation communities imperiled by various ecological and human
induced factors (the "Natural Community and Green Infrastructure Report").
      2.   The Village has adopted voluntary ecological cost-share programs
whereby the stewardship and management activities of residents in woodland
areas are eligible to be partially reimbursed by the Village in furtherance of
the recommended goals set forth described in the Natural Community and Green
Infrastructure Report.
   G.   The Village caused multi-spectral aerial imaging of the entire Village
to be performed on April 8, 2017, in accordance with technical specifications
relied upon by restoration ecologists. The Village Ecologist applied such
imaging to delineate the boundaries of native woodlands on parcels throughout
the Village and to generate an individual woodland delineation parcel map for
each parcel, each dated April 8, 2017, indicating the parcel acreage, woodland
acreage, and percent woodland cover for such parcel (a "woodland delineation
parcel map"). (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-3: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted under authority vested in the Village by and pursuant
to its home rule powers and other applicable laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-4: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect native trees and native woodlands
within the Village by regulating and limiting their removal in order to
safeguard their benefits for this and succeeding generations. The protection
and regeneration of native trees will promote the repair of ecologically
disturbed native woodlands and the gradual restoration of the native woodlands
once prevalent throughout the Village. The intent of this chapter is to
accomplish the purposes set forth herein while ensuring that property owners
can continue to enjoy a reasonable return on their properties and are provided
the maximum latitude to use their parcels for purposes not inconsistent with
these regulations. Periodic review of these regulations should be undertaken by
the Village to evaluate whether this intent is being realized. (Ord. 18-03-05,
3-6-2018)
9-6-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when
used in this chapter. In administering or enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the Village may call on the services of the Village Ecologist and/or
Village Forester, and any reference in this chapter to one shall be deemed to
include the other.
CONDITION RATING (For Trees): An evaluation of tree health and structural
issues, with condition rating 1 being the highest rating, and condition rating
6 being the lowest rating of tree health and structure. The characteristics of
trees having condition ratings 1 - 6 are summarized below.
   Condition 1: Excellent - The tree is typical of the species, has less than
ten percent (10%) deadwood in the crown that is attributable to normal causes,
has no other observed problems, and requires no remedial action.
   Condition 2: Good - The tree is typical of the species and/or has less than
twenty percent (20%) deadwood in the crown, only one or two (2) minor problems
that are easily corrected with normal care.
   Condition 3: Fair - The tree is typical of the species and/or has less than
thirty percent (30%) deadwood in the crown, one or two (2) minor problems that
are not eminently lethal to the tree, and no significant decay or structural
problems, but the tree may need remedial care in order to minimize the impact
of future stress and to ensure continued health.
   Condition 4: Average - The tree is typical of the species but has some
problems such as thirty percent (30%) to fifty percent (50%) deadwood in the
crown, decay or structural defects, insects, disease or other problems that can
be eminently lethal to the tree or create a hazardous tree if not corrected in
a short period of time or if the tree is subjected to additional stress.
   Condition 5: Poor - The tree is not typical of the species and/or has over
fifty percent (50%) deadwood in the crown, major decay or structural problems,
is hazardous or is severely involved with insects, disease, or other problems,
that even if aggressively corrected, would not result in the long-term survival
of the tree.
   Condition 6: Dead - Less than ten percent (10%) of the tree shows signs of
life.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area inscribed by a circular line on the ground beneath
a tree having as its center point the center of the trunk of the tree and a
radius equal to one foot (1') for every inch of diameter at breast height
(dbh).
DAMAGE: The taking of any direct or indirect action that causes, or is
reasonably likely to cause, the death of a tree or a significant loss of a
tree's structural integrity including, without limitation, destruction,
poisoning, carving, mutilating, girdling, severing the main trunk, leader, or
large branches or roots, removing any portion of the bark from the main trunk,
leader, or large branches, touching with live wires, crushing or exposing the
roots, digging or drilling any hole or trench within the critical root zone,
filling with soil or other materials within the critical root zone, compacting
a substantial portion of the soil in the critical root zone, or moving a tree
to another location. Without limiting the foregoing, "damage" does not include
the pruning of trees in accordance with "Standard Practices for Tree, Shrub,
and Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300) and "Tree-Pruning Guidelines"
published by the International Society of Arboriculture or similar standards
and guidelines from time to time recommended for residents of the Village by
the Village Forester or Village Ecologist. Damage does include and is deemed to
occur when more than twenty percent (20%) of the critical root zone of any tree
is damaged or removed or when more than twenty percent (20%) of the critical
root zone of any tree is covered by three inches (3") or more of mulch or fill.
DESIRABLE PROTECTED TREE: Any tree located in the Village that would be only a
regulated tree if not for the fact that the tree has a condition rating of 1,
2, 3 or 4, and is one of the following species listed in the table below.
DESIRABLE PROTECTED TREES
Scientific Name Common Name Classification
Scientific Name            Common Name               Classification
Acer saccharum (= 15" dbh  Sugar maple (= 15" dbh    Canopy tree
only)                      only)
Aesculus glabra            Ohio Buckeye              Subcanopy tree
Amelanchier sp.            Serviceberry species      Subcanopy tree
Betula sp.                 Birch species             Subcanopy tree
Cephalanthus occidentalis  Buttonbush                Understory tree
Cercis Canadensis          Redbud                    Subcanopy tree
Cornus alternifolia        Pagoda Dogwood            Subcanopy tree
Cornus stolonifera         Redosier Dogwood          Multi-stem understory tree
Corylus americana          American Hazel            Multi-stem understory tree
Crataegus sp.              Hawthorn species          Subcanopy tree
Euonymus atropurpureus     Eastern Wahoo             Subcanopy tree
Ilex verticillate          Winterberry Holly         Multi-stem understory tree
Juglans nigra              Black Walnut              Canopy tree
Linden benzoin             Spicebush                 Multi-stem understory tree
Pinus strobus              Eastern White Pine        Canopy tree
Prunus virginiana          Chokecherry               Multi-stem understory
                                                     shrub
Sambucus canadensis        Elderberry                Multi-stem understory
                                                     shrub
Stapylea trifolia          Bladdernut                Multi-stem understory
                                                     shrub
Tilia americana (= 15" dbh Basswood (= 15" dbh only) Subcanopy tree
only)
Viburnum sp. 1             Viburnum species          Multi-stem understory
                                                     shrub
  
Note:
   1.    Does not include Viburnum prunifolium (Blackhaw Viburnum).
DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): The diameter of the trunk of a tree measured in
inches, at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above the existing grade at
the base of the tree. Dbh is a commonly accepted standard used by arborists to
measure the size of trees.
ECOLOGICAL COST SHARE PROGRAMS: The programs from time to time authorized by
the Village to further the ecological management and stewardship of native
woodlands by Village residents.
ECOLOGICAL MITIGATION PLAN: A legally enforceable plan and agreement between an
owner and the Village, under which the owner agrees to perform ecological
restoration in the form of various ecological management strategies that are
intended to establish, protect, or enhance native woodlands and other areas
located on such owner's parcel, as specified in the mitigation plan document
prepared by the Village Ecologist.
HIGHLY DESIRABLE PROTECTED TREE: Any tree located in the Village that would be
only a regulated tree, if not for the fact that the tree has a condition rating
of 1, 2, 3 or 4, and is one of the species listed in the table below.
HIGHLY DESIRABLE PROTECTED TREES
Scientific Name Common Name Classification
Scientific Name       Common Name           Classification
Acer rubrum           Red Maple             Canopy tree
Carpinus caroliniana  Blue Beech/Musclewood Subcanopy tree
Carya sp.             Hickory species       Canopy tree
Celtis occidentalis   Common Hackberry      Canopy tree
Hamamelis virginiana  Common Witchhazel     Subcanopy tree
Ostrya virginiana     Ironwood              Subcanopy tree
Platanus occidentalis American Sycamore     Canopy tree
Quercus sp.           Oak species           Canopy tree
Virbunum prunifolium  Blackhaw Viburnum     Subcanopy tree
 
NATIVE TREE: For purposes of this chapter, any tree in the Village that is
either a desirable protected tree or a highly desirable protected tree
indigenous to the area and important to the native woodland community in which
they are found.
NATIVE WOODLANDS: Areas in the Village consisting of one or more woodland plant
communities, transitioning (west to east) from floodplain woodland near the Des
Plaines River to mesic woodland, dry-mesic woodland, then savanna, with
northern flatwoods scattered throughout and populated by native trees and
having a minimum area of four hundred (400) square feet, consisting of at least
a canopy layer comprised of native tree species and natural/unmaintained ground
(herbaceous) layer that allows for the regeneration and sustainability of the
woodland over time. For purposes of this chapter, northern flatwoods and
savanna are considered woodland communities.
OWNER: The person or entity legally or beneficially owing real estate in the
Village undertaking any actions with respect to regulated trees on such real
estate which are regulated by the provisions of this chapter. Any reference to
owner in this chapter includes the family members, guests, tenants, licensees,
contractors, agents, officers, directors, shareholders and employees of the
person or entity legally or beneficially owing the real estate in question
under the provisions of this chapter.
PROTECTED WOODLAND: The area of native woodland determined for each parcel in
the Village shown on the woodland delineation parcel map for such parcel as of
April 8, 2017, which area may be expressed as a percentage of the total land
area of such parcel, but subject to adjustment in accordance with section
9-6-9 of this chapter. For any parcel, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the protected woodland, subject to such adjustment, is the amount of
native woodland on such parcel documented as of April 8, 2017.
REGULATED TREE: Any tree located in the Village, together with its root system,
having a primary stem or trunk that is at least one and one-half inches (1.5")
dbh or greater and is at least six feet (6') tall, and any multi-stemmed
variation (where all stems are less than 1.5 inches dbh) of the tree species
that is at least six feet (6') tall. For mitigation purposes and calculating
tree mitigation fees, each multi-stemmed tree will be considered to have a two
inch (2") dbh.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL (With Respect To Protected Woodlands): The removal and/or
replacement of protected woodland on a parcel, that consists of physically
clearing or otherwise removing or replacing any of the layers (ground, shrub,
subcanopy and canopy) of the protected woodland by mowing, mulching, cutting,
tilling or planting turf grass, or planting non-native or invasive trees,
shrubs, or ground layer vegetation that effectively replaces any woodland
layer. For avoidance of doubt, the removal of any canopy, subcanopy, or shrub
layer of protected woodland may also constitute the removal of regulated trees.
For purposes of this definition, neither: a) the planting of flowers and
engaging in gardening activities in the protected woodlands that do not harm
the survival and regeneration of protected woodlands, nor b) the detachment or
elimination of invasive or noxious trees, shrubs or ground layer vegetation,
such as those identified in the ecological cost share programs, shall be deemed
to be removed. In construing the preceding sentence, activities that harm the
regeneration of the protected woodlands are those that cumulatively cancel the
natural processes through which the native woodlands would regenerate if the
activities in question were to cease.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL (With Respect To Regulated Trees): The physical detachment or
elimination of a regulated tree, or the effective detachment or elimination of
a regulated tree, through damage, cutting of major vegetation to the ground,
complete extraction or killing by spraying, girdling, root cutting, or
otherwise (but not the proper pruning of trees in accordance with "Standard
Practices for Tree, Shrub, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300) and
"Tree-Pruning Guidelines" published by the International Society of
Arboriculture or similar standards).
TREE EMERGENCY: The existence of any tree within the Village that has become an
immediate danger or hazard to persons or property as a result of any tornado,
windstorm, flood, freeze, natural disaster or other occurrence.
TREE MITIGATION FEE: The fee to be paid by an owner for the removal of
desirable protected trees or highly desirable protected trees, to the extent
the provisions of this chapter require the payment of such fee, in the amount
set forth in the Village fee schedule.
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT: The written permit issued by the Village to authorize the
removal of regulated tree(s) pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT APPLICATION: The application (including fee, if any)
required for issuance of a tree removal permit pursuant to this chapter.
VILLAGE ECOLOGIST: The employee or consultant of the Village who is a trained
restoration ecologist and is designated to act as Village Ecologist.
VILLAGE FEE SCHEDULE: The fee schedule adopted pursuant to section
1-11-5 of this Code.
VILLAGE FORESTER: The employee or consultant of the Village who is a trained
forester/arborist and is designated to act as Village Forester.
WOODLAND DELINEATION PARCEL MAP: As defined in subsection
9-6-2G of this chapter.
WOODLAND DELINEATION SURVEY: As defined in section
9-6-9 of this chapter.
WOODLAND REMOVAL PERMIT: The written permit issued by the Village to authorize
the removal of protected woodland pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
WOODLAND REMOVAL PERMIT APPLICATION: The application (including fee, if any)
required for issuance of a woodland removal permit pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-6: TREE REMOVAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Except for tree emergencies, it shall be unlawful for any owner without
a tree removal permit from the Village to damage or remove any regulated tree.
Any owner is responsible for the damage or removal of the regulated tree on
such owner's property when the damage or removal was performed or caused by
another person acting with the permission of such owner.
   B.   Any owner who damages or removes one or more regulated trees without a
tree removal permit shall be required to apply retroactively for a tree removal
permit. If more than twenty percent (20%) of the critical root zone of any
regulated tree will be damaged or removed as result of proposed construction on
an owner's property, then notwithstanding the intent of the owner to preserve
such regulated tree, the loss of such regulated tree shall be assumed and an
application for tree removal permit required in such instance.
   C.   An owner applying for a permit to remove protected woodland under this
chapter shall apply for a tree removal permit with respect to any regulated
trees to be removed from the protected woodland.
   D.   If an owner seeks a tree removal permit, the application for such tree
removal permit shall contain:
      1.   Name and address of the owner;
      2.   Commonly known address of the owner's property where the removal
shall occur;
      3.   Name and address of the contractor or other person who is proposed
as having responsibility for tree removal;
      4.   A hand drawn map indicating the location of each tree proposed for
removal;
      5.   A general description of all trees to be removed, including tree
number, species, size (dbh), condition, and reason for removal;
      6.   When a site development permit is required, a site development plan
sheet entitled "Woodland/Tree Protection & Landscaping Plan" containing all or
a portion of such details as may be specified or required for such plans for
reviewing such permit under the Riverwoods development ordinance;
      7.   When a site development permit is required, a tree survey of all
regulated trees (except buckthorn and honeysuckle) 1.5" to 6" dbh (and multi-
stem variations) extending a minimum of twenty feet (20') beyond the
construction limits and all six inch (6") dbh and greater regulated trees
extending a minimum of forty feet (40') beyond the construction limits and
overlaid directly upon the woodland/tree protection and landscaping plans
contained in the site development plan, showing the tag number, species, size
(dbh), condition and percent of critical root zone permanently impacted of all
regulated trees. The survey shall distinguish among trees to be preserved, root
pruned, transplanted, or removed. The owner may exclude areas of the site or
trees under six inches (6") dbh from the tree survey, if the Village Ecologist
determines that the proposed construction or other activity will not impact
those areas; and
      8.   Such other data and information as the Village shall deem necessary
to allow full and fair consideration of the tree removal permit application.
   E.   Upon receipt of a tree removal permit application, the Village
Ecologist shall inspect the owner's property and contiguous and adjoining lots
in order to evaluate the application, including finding whether any of the
trees requested for removal are located in a protected woodland area. Subject
to compliance with applicable provisions of this Code, upon recommendation of
the Village Ecologist, the Village will issue a tree removal permit, without
charging a tree mitigation fee, if, based on the site inspection, one or more
of the following permit conditions is satisfied:
      1.   The tree is not a desirable protected tree or highly desirable
protected tree;
      2.   The tree is a desirable protected tree or highly desirable protected
tree that is proposed to be removed or relocated within two (2) years after
first being planted;
      3.   The tree to be removed is located within the footprint of a new
principal building to be located on an undeveloped lot that has never been
improved with a single-family dwelling;
      4.   The tree must be removed because it is dead, dying or diseased;
      5.   The tree is weakened by disease, age, fire, storm or other natural
causes such that it is likely to die or become diseased;
      6.   The tree constitutes a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic; or
      7.   The tree constitutes a tree emergency.
   F.   An owner or agent acting pursuant to a tree removal permit shall remove
the trees identified in such permit in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the tree removal permit. Tree removal permits will be issued
initially for a period of ninety (90) days and may be extended by the Village
Ecologist for good cause shown. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-7: TREE EMERGENCIES:
   A.   If a tree emergency shall occur, such that there arises a risk of
imminent danger or hazard to persons or property from any tree which ought to
be cut or removed immediately or with as little delay as possible (i.e., trees
which threaten to fall or have fallen on houses or power lines or block safe
passage of streets or have become uprooted or unstable as a result of severe
weather, floods or high winds), then it shall be lawful for the owner to remove
such tree, to the extent necessary to avoid immediate danger or hazard, without
a tree removal permit; provided that within five (5) business days after taking
any such action, the owner shall complete relevant portions of the tree removal
permit application describing the tree emergency and the actions taken. In
order to expedite the removal of a tree causing a tree emergency, the owner may
also take photos of the tree(s) in question and send to the Village Ecologist/
Forester who can then respond immediately to approve the tree(s) removal.
   B.   If the Village Ecologist, upon the review of the tree removal permit
application, concurs that the owner's actions were warranted, no further action
under these regulations shall be necessary, but if the Village Ecologist
determines that no genuine tree emergency existed to justify the removal of the
regulated tree(s), then such actions by the owner shall be deemed a violation
of these regulations. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-8: ELECTIVE OR UNPERMITTED TREE REMOVAL:
   A.   The Village policy is to discourage the removal of native trees for
frivolous reasons. A tree removal permit will be issued for removal of a native
tree when made necessary by construction, additions or property improvements or
repairs within the building envelope allowed on the parcel in question. In such
instances, the owner may obtain a tree removal permit for the removal of the
native tree concurrently with the approval of the building permit upon paying
the applicable building permit fees, tree removal permit and mitigation fees.
   B.   In instances when the native tree sought to be removed is located
within any required yard on the owner's parcel, the owner shall have a burden
of establishing that no reasonable methods of accomplishing the construction or
repairs are available that could avoid the removal of the native tree in the
required yards. The removal of native trees in any required yard shall be
limited to the minimum amount necessary for the proposed construction.
   C.   Except when the Village waives the payment of the tree mitigation fee,
as described in section
9-6-12 of this chapter, tree mitigation fees are payable for the removal of
native trees pursuant to a tree removal permit. The payment of tree mitigation
fees for any elective removal shall be as set forth in the Village fee
schedule. The fees shall be at a rate assessed on each one inch (1") in trunk
diameter of removed native trees (measured by dbh) and may vary according to
the species of the removed tree(s), if so provided in the Village fee schedule.
If there are protected woodlands on the parcel in question that would benefit
from implementation of an ecological mitigation plan, then the Village may
waive or reduce the payment of the tree mitigation fee, as described in section
9-6-12 of this chapter.
   D.   An owner who damages or removes one or more regulated trees without a
tree removal permit is required to apply retroactively for a tree removal
permit and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter. In
addition, the owner shall pay the tree mitigation fees indicated in the Village
fee schedule for any trees removed that were native trees. If the identity of
trees removed as native trees cannot be determined, due to the actions of the
owner, then the Village shall treat such occurrence as an aggravating
circumstance when imposing the penalty amount. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-9: ADOPTION OF WOODLAND DELINEATION PARCEL MAPS:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, the woodland delineation parcel map
for each parcel in the Village is hereby adopted and accepted as a rebuttably
true and correct delineation of protected woodland for the parcel to which it
applies, to the extent and within the area documented on the woodland
delineation parcel map for such parcel.
   B.   Any owner, including any applicant for a site development permit, may
elect to provide an on-ground survey, prepared by an experienced ecological
consultant selected by the applicant, to delineate the native woodlands on such
owner's property (a "woodland delineation survey"). For the purposes of this
chapter, any woodland delineation survey shall satisfy the following criteria
or will be rejected as inapplicable to the regulations of this chapter:
      1.   Native woodlands shall be delineated on a scaled plan showing the
boundaries all native woodlands on the parcel in question, according to the
definition of native woodlands in this chapter. Without limiting the foregoing,
the area of native woodlands so delineated will exclude grass lawns, impervious
surfaces, or other manmade surfaces such as a horse corral.
      2.   Woodland delineation flags shall be placed along the edge of the
native woodlands and be placed as close together as necessary to define the
native woodlands, but no farther apart than fifty feet (50').
   C.   The edge of native woodlands that is delineated on the parcel shall be
reviewed by the Village Ecologist, who shall either reject or approve the
proposed delineation or approve the delineation with modifications. If the
woodland delineation survey is being prepared in conjunction with an
application for a site development permit, the delineation of the native
woodlands shall be shown on the site plan. No site development permit shall be
issued to any person under title 8 of this Code if the proposed development
would result in a violation of section
9-6-10 of this chapter.
   D.   An owner may apply for a map amendment to the amount of protected
woodland shown by a woodland delineation parcel map on such owner's parcel by
submitting a woodland delineation survey to the Village, together with such
other photographic or documentary information as the owner deemed relevant, as
part of a formal request for map amendment. If a preponderance of evidence
submitted indicates that the woodland delineation parcel map for the lot in
question overstates the extent of native woodlands on the parcel in question as
of April 8, 2017, then the Village shall revise the woodland delineation parcel
map to correct for the overstatement.
   E.   Notwithstanding the area documented on the woodland delineation parcel
maps, if an owner or such owner's predecessor(s) shall have participated in an
ecological cost share program and enlarged the native woodlands on such owner's
parcel after April 8, 2017, the areas of native woodlands enlarged through the
ecological cost share programs, although not shown on the woodland parcel map
for the parcel, will nevertheless be documented as protected woodland and a
notation by the Village Ecologist will be placed on the woodland delineation
parcel map to indicate the adjusted boundary of the protected woodland, which
shall thereafter be the protected woodland for such parcel for purposes of
applying the limitations in section
9-6-10 of this chapter. By means of a woodland delineation survey, any owner
may document any additions to the native woodlands located on such owner's lot
by means of a woodland delineation survey submitted to and approved by the
Village, and a notation by the Village Ecologist will be placed on the woodland
delineation parcel map to indicate the adjusted boundary of the protected
woodland on such owner's parcel, which shall thereafter be the protected
woodland for such parcel for purposes of applying the limitations in section
9-6-10 of this chapter.
   F.   The Village Clerk is directed to retain an official copy of the
woodland delineation parcel map for each parcel in the Village with all
notations thereon. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-10: LIMITATIONS ON REMOVAL OF PROTECTED WOODLAND:
   A.   With respect to any parcel in the Village, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit any removal of protected woodland on such parcel to
such an extent as to result in a net, aggregate loss of more than twenty
percent (20%) of the area of such parcel's protected woodland.
   B.   When a parcel is subdivided after January 1, 2018, the Village
Ecologist shall issue a woodland delineation parcel map for each resulting lot
(based on the woodland delineation parcel map for the original parcel) and
shall notate on the maps the extent of removal of protected woodland on each
parcel that occurred before the subdivision.
      1.   The area of protected woodland allowed to be removed from the
subdivided parcels, in the aggregate, shall be the same area as could have been
removed immediately before the subdivision occurred (the "woodland removal
allowance"). The subdivision plat shall contain a restriction allocating the
woodland removal allowance among the parcels. This plat restriction shall take
precedence over the twenty percent (20%) restriction set forth in subsection A
of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any removal
of protected woodland on any subdivided parcel in violation of the applicable
plat restriction.
   C.   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this chapter, for a
parcel that has never been improved with a residence (including a parcel that
results from a subdivision), no tree mitigation fee shall apply to the removal
of native trees located within the area of any protected woodland that is
removed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   An owner shall be allowed to apply for a variation under chapter 11 of
this title to remove up to five percent (5%) of protected woodland above the
amount of protected woodland that could otherwise be removed on such owner's
parcel under this chapter, because of special or peculiar characteristics of
the owner's parcel that make compliance with this chapter difficult or
impossible. The woodland removal restrictions applicable to any parcel shall
not be varied more than once. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-11: WOODLAND REMOVAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit any removal of protected woodland on
any parcel in the Village, unless the person has obtained a woodland removal
permit from the Village. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that the
removal does not violate the allowable reduction in protected woodland on such
owner's land. Removal of protected woodland harms the survival and regeneration
of native woodland in the cleared area and may result in a violation of this
chapter. Any owner who damages or removes any protected woodland on such
owner's land without a woodland removal permit or in violation of a woodland
removal permit shall be responsible for the damage or removal of such protected
woodland, notwithstanding that the damage or removal was performed or caused by
another person acting under the authority of such owner. Any owner who performs
or allows protected woodland removal to occur on such owner's parcel without a
woodland removal permit shall be required to apply retroactively for a woodland
removal permit and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter.
A contractor performing work on an owner's parcel is considered to be working
under the direction and supervision of the owner, and the owner is responsible
for the actions of the contractor that constitute violations of this chapter.
   B.   If an owner seeks a woodland removal permit, the application for such
woodland removal permit shall contain:
      1.   Name and address of the owner;
      2.   Commonly known address of the owner's property where the removal
shall occur;
      3.   A written statement indicating the reason for the removal;
      4.   A description indicated on the woodland delineation map for such
owner's parcel of all specific areas of protected woodland to be removed;
      5.   A dimensioned drawing containing all or a portion of such details as
may be specified or required for such plans under section
8-5-3 of this Code, if requested by the Village Ecologist to allow full and
fair consideration of the woodland removal permit application;
      6.   When a site development permit is required, a site development plan
sheet entitled "Woodland/Tree Protection & Landscaping Plan" containing all or
a portion of such details as may be specified or required for such plans for
reviewing such permit under the Riverwoods development ordinance; and
      7.   Whenever protected woodland has been removed since April 8, 2017, a
current woodland delineation survey may be required, if deemed necessary by the
Village for measuring the amount of remaining protected woodland with
sufficient accuracy.
   C.   Upon receipt of the owner's application, the Village Ecologist shall
visit and inspect the owner's property and visually inspect contiguous and
adjoining lots in order to evaluate the application. Subject to compliance with
other applicable provisions of this Code, the Village Ecologist shall approve
the application and issue a woodland removal permit if, based on a site
inspection, the removal of such protected woodland will not reduce protected
woodland below the allowable amount under section
9-6-10 of this chapter. If the removal of protected woodland is in accord with
this chapter, no charge shall be assessed to the owner for the woodland removal
permit (although a charge may apply for a concurrent tree removal permit if
native trees are being removed). (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-12: ECOLOGICAL MITIGATION PLAN:
   A.   An owner who receives a court order (or decision of an Administration
Hearing Officer) to cure a violation of this chapter stemming from the unlawful
removal of native trees and/or protected woodlands shall enter into an
ecological mitigation plan with the Village in addition to paying any fine set
forth in the order or decision.
   B.   An owner charged with the unlawful removal of native trees and/or
protected woodlands may request to cure such violation by voluntarily settling
the violation with the Village and entering into an ecological mitigation plan
with the Village, provided the owner shall pay a minimum fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), as a condition of entering into the ecological mitigation
plan.
   C.   An owner desiring to perform the lawful removal of native trees on the
owner's parcel may apply for a waiver of all or a portion of the applicable
tree mitigation fee by voluntarily agreeing to implement an ecological
mitigation plan recommended by the Village Ecologist, pursuant to which the
owner undertakes beneficial ecological restoration of protected woodlands on
such owner's parcel. Such ecological mitigation plans will be approved only in
those cases where tree mitigation fees would otherwise exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) and the degree to which the owner undertakes beneficial
ecological restoration of protected woodlands and completes such restoration
activities would merit such consideration.
   D.   An ecological mitigation plan, together with such application form as
may be prescribed by the Village, may be prepared by owner's ecological
consultant or collaboratively with the Village Ecologist and submitted to the
Village for review and approval. The ecological mitigation plan must be
prepared in accordance with the specifications developed by the Village
Ecologist for implementation of the ecological cost share programs (but without
the cost share). Each ecological mitigation plan shall specify the locations of
proposed restoration options, including but not necessarily limited to, native
tree and shrub planting, canopy and subcanopy tree thinning, native seeding,
invasive shrub removal, garlic mustard removal, and/or prescribed burning. In
reviewing and approving each ecological mitigation plan, the Village Ecologist
will recommend the forms of ecological mitigation that are most feasible and
beneficial to the native woodland on the owner's parcel. Upon request of the
owner and approval by the Village President, the Village Ecologist may prepare
the ecological mitigation plan for use by the owner, at the owner's expense.
   E.   Each ecological mitigation plan shall establish timelines. For
ecological mitigation of removed native trees, the timeline shall be six (6)
months after the date of approval of the ecological mitigation plan. An
extension of time may be granted by the Village Ecologist upon request,
provided, however that no such extension shall exceed twelve (12) months from
the original date of issuance of the permit. A timeline for ecological
mitigation of native woodlands shall be as set forth in the approved ecological
mitigation plan, but it is not uncommon for such plans to require commitments
of three (3) or more years of management/stewardship before measurable
restoration performance of woodlands can be confirmed. Each ecological
mitigation plan, as a condition of approval, shall be performed by a trained
ecological restoration contractor, certified for such work by the Village under
the ecological cost share programs.
   F.   In each ecological mitigation plan, the owner shall agree to reimburse
the Village for its reasonable fees and expenses, including consultants' and
attorneys' fee to the extent permitted by law, in preparing, negotiating,
inspecting and enforcing the ecological mitigation plan, and shall agree that
the Village will be entitled to record a lien against such owner's parcel for
recovery of any such unpaid fees and expenses. The fees for the services of the
Village Ecologist and other consultants will be charged to the owner at rates
as set forth in the Village fee schedule. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-13: APPEALS:
An owner may appeal in writing to the Village Board of any decision made by the
Village Ecologist/Forester under the provisions of this chapter within thirty
(30) days of such decision being rendered. No such appeal shall stay any court
proceedings, including any administrative adjudication, in furtherance of the
decision appealed from and all duties imposed thereby. The Board of Trustees
shall select a reasonable time and place for a public hearing on the appeal,
shall give due notice thereof to the parties having a known interest therein
and shall render a written decision without unreasonable delay. Upon the
concurring vote of a majority of its members then holding office, the Board of
Trustees may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify, the
decision from which the appeal was taken, and to that end the Board shall have
all the powers of the Village officials or agents charged with making the
decision appealed from. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-14: PENALTY:
   A.   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such
violation.
   B.   In case of unlawful removal of regulated trees without a tree removal
permit or in violation of the terms of such permit, a separate and distinct
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each regulated tree unlawfully
removed in violation of this chapter, and a separate and distinct violation
shall be deemed to have occurred for each day that such violations exist.
   C.   In case of unlawful removal of protected woodland without a woodland
removal permit or in violation of the terms of such permit, a separate and
distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each day that such
protected woodland is unlawfully removed and/or not restored in violation of
this chapter, and a separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have
occurred for each day that such violations exist.
   D.   In addition to any fine permitted or required to be imposed hereunder,
the Village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an actual or threatened
violation of this chapter, and may also seek mandatory injunctive relief to
require the owner of the lot in question to bring such lot into compliance with
this chapter by preparing and implementing an ecological mitigation plan, the
Corporate Authorities finding that the Village and the health, safety and
welfare of its residents will be irreparably harmed by the failure to observe
the regulations in this chapter, and that the imposition of a fine alone is an
inadequate remedy for such violations. The Village may prosecute violations of
this chapter filing a case directly in the appropriate court or by referring
the offense to the administrative adjudication system for hearing and
resolution in accordance with this Code. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
9-6-15: CONFLICT WITH OTHER ZONING PROVISIONS:
Where a conflict results between the regulations of this chapter and the
provisions of the zoning districts in which any lot is located, the regulations
of this chapter shall control. (Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
CHAPTER 7
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Procedural Considerations
9-7-4: Locations Of Telecommunications Overlay District
9-7-5: Uses In Wireless Telecommunications Overlay District
9-7-6: Standards For Approval Of Personal Wireless Service Facilities
9-7-7: Special Use Applications In District
9-7-8: General Requirements And Prohibitions
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter may be referred to as the TELECOMMUNICATIONS
OVERLAY DISTRICT ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to provide specific
regulations for the location, placement, construction and modification of
personal wireless telecommunications facilities so as to protect residential,
commercial and office areas and land uses from visual blight, aesthetic
degradation of the community, reduction in property values and incompatible
land uses, to preserve and maintain the character of the existing residential,
commercial and office zoning districts, and to otherwise protect the public
safety and welfare of the residents of the village. The provisions of this
chapter are not intended and shall not be interpreted to prohibit or have the
effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, nor shall
the provisions of this chapter be applied in such manner as to unreasonably
discriminate between providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless
services. To the extent that any provisions of this chapter are inconsistent or
in conflict with any other provision of this section, the provisions of this
section shall be deemed to control. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
"Personal wireless services" and "personal wireless service facilities", as
used in this chapter, shall be defined in the same manner as in title 47,
United States Code, section 332(c)(7)(C), as amended now or in the future. The
FCC refers to the federal communications commission. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999)
9-7-3: PROCEDURAL CONSIDERATIONS:
In the course of reviewing any request for any approval required under this
chapter made by an applicant to install personal wireless service facilities,
the plan commission or the board of trustees, as the case may be, shall act
within a reasonable period of time after request is duly filed with the
village, taking into account the nature and scope of the request, and any
decision to deny such a request shall be in writing and supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record. Should the application of
this chapter have the effect of prohibiting a person or entity from providing
personal wireless services to all or a portion of the village, such provider
may petition the board of trustees for an amendment to this chapter, in the
manner provided in section
9-11-8 of the Riverwoods zoning ordinance. The board of trustees, upon receipt
of such petition, shall promptly undertake a review of the petition and shall
make a determination on the petition within a reasonable period of time, taking
into account the nature and scope of the petition, and any decision to deny
such a petition shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence
contained in a written record. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999)
9-7-4: LOCATIONS OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERLAY DISTRICT:
The shaded areas shown on the overlay district appendix to the zoning map are
hereby zoned wireless telecommunications overlay district, which overlay
district is generally described as including the sites generally described as
follows:
   Site 1:   The site owned by the village of Riverwoods west of the
northernmost of a group of entrances from Saunders Road to the Ravinia Green
Country Club, on which a village owned water tower has been erected.
   Site 2:   The properties in the village lying generally west of the Des
Plaines River and south of Deerfield Road; also the property lying within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the northeast corner of Deerfield Road and
Milwaukee Avenue.
   Site 3:   The eastern fifty feet (50') of the Deerfield park district golf
course where such golf course is adjacent to the Tri-State Tollway.
   Site 4:   The eastern sixty feet (60') of the northern sixty feet (60') of
the property that is the site of the Country Inn & Suites Hotel, located at
2600 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, Illinois. (Ord. 02-1-1, 1-8-2002)
9-7-5: USES IN WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Use: A personal wireless service facility shall be a
permitted use, whether principal or accessory, in the wireless
telecommunications overlay district, provided the land on which it is located
is owned or leased by the Village. All such facilities are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. All agreements with operators allowing personal
wireless service facilities on land owned or leased by the Village that have
been authorized by or in connection with a special use permit:
      1.   May be extended, renewed, replaced, modified or canceled by action
of the Board of Trustees; and
      2.   Shall continue in full force and effect according to their terms,
except that a special use permit shall not be required.
   B.   Special Use: A personal wireless service facility may be classified as
a special use, whether principal or accessory, in the wireless
telecommunications overlay district, provided it complies with the regulations
and standards in subsection B of this section and section
9-7-6 of this chapter. A special use application shall be processed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title and in section
9-7-7 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "microcell facility"
shall be a permitted use and not require processing as a special use. For
purposes of this Chapter, a "microcell facility" shall be defined solely as: 1)
not more than two (2) so called "whip antennas" attached to any existing
structure within the wireless telecommunications overlay district (each such
whip antenna to be a pole antenna not exceeding 11/2 inches in diameter nor
exceeding 3 feet in length); and 2) related equipment cabinets adjoining such
existing structure with a total footprint not exceeding forty (40) square feet
nor exceeding six feet (6') in height. A microcell facility shall remain
subject to all existing zoning setbacks and other zoning regulations of the
underlying zoning district in which it is located (to the extent not modified
by the wireless telecommunications overlay district). Equipment cabinets shall
be fenced or landscaped to screen from any residential properties. (Ord. 99-3-
4, 3-16-1999)
   C.   Wireless Telecommunications Overlay District Regulations:
      1.   The personal wireless service facility must conform to all minimum
setback and yard requirements of the underlying zoning district, and also
conform to all federal laws and regulations concerning its use and operation.
In the event such standards or regulations are amended, then the owner shall
bring the personal wireless service facility into compliance with the revised
standards or regulations within the date mandated by the regulatory agency.
Failure to bring any personal wireless service facility into material
compliance with such revised standards and regulations as herein provided after
notice from the village and a reasonable opportunity to bring the facility into
compliance, shall constitute grounds for the removal of the personal wireless
service facility at the owner's expense.
      2.   No freestanding antenna pole in excess of thirty five feet (35') in
height shall be permitted in any portion of the wireless telecommunications
overlay district, except for site 4 described in section
9-7-4 of this chapter, and no variations from this prohibition shall be
allowed. If a freestanding antenna pole is proposed for site 4, the height of
the personal wireless service facility must not exceed one hundred twenty five
feet (125') above grade; otherwise a height variance must be obtained pursuant
to the customary procedures before the zoning board of appeals.
      3.   Other than in those cases where a freestanding antenna pole is
expressly permitted by this section, the personal wireless service facility
must be directly affixed to an existing structure; and, if the personal
wireless service facility uses a roof mounted antenna pole, then the height of
the personal wireless service facility must not exceed ten feet (10') above the
roof of an existing building. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999; amd. Ord. 02-1-1, 1-8-
2002; Ord. 19-06-12, 6-18-2019)
9-7-6: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   In considering a request for approval of a special use or variations to
permit the installation of a personal wireless service facility, the zoning
board of appeals, plan commission or the board of trustees, as the case may be,
shall be guided by the standards contained in sections
9-11-6 and
9-11-9 of the zoning ordinance, but shall also give due consideration and
weight, in the case of an application for a freestanding tower, to whether:
      1.   The plans submitted will provide for collocation of other personal
wireless service facilities on the same structure, so as to minimize the
proliferation of freestanding antenna supporting structures.
      2.   The applicant has sought and been denied the opportunity to
collocate its personal wireless service facility on an existing antenna
supporting structure.
      3.   The applicant has used all reasonable efforts to cause the personal
wireless service facility be concealed where possible, to blend into the
surrounding landscaping and vegetation (for example, in the case of equipment
boxes) or to express an architectural harmony with existing buildings and
structures.
In considering a request for approval of a special use or variations to permit
the installation of a freestanding pole type of personal wireless service
facility, the Zoning Board of Appeals, Plan Commission or the Board of
Trustees, as the case may be, may require, by express condition, that the
applicant shall allow, on a commercially reasonable basis, other providers of
personal wireless telecommunications services to collocate additional personal
wireless service facilities on a freestanding pole which is part of the
applicant's proposed personal wireless service facility, where such collocation
is technologically and structurally feasible. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-1999)
9-7-7: SPECIAL USE APPLICATIONS IN DISTRICT:
   A.   All applications for building permits and special use permits for the
construction, installation, replacement or modification of any personal
wireless service facility shall contain such of the information set forth in
this Section as may be requested by the chairman of the Plan Commission, which
shall be in addition to the building permit application requirements of Title 8
of this Code and in addition to the special use application requirements of
Section
9-11-9 of the Zoning Ordinance. The information may be provided by using any
combination of site plans, surveys, maps, technical reports or written
narratives. An application shall not be deemed complete and shall not be
processed until the applicant has submitted all of the required permit
application information, including all additional information requested by the
chairman of the Plan Commission. The date as of which all such information has
been filed shall be deemed the date of filing. The information which may be
requested is set forth below:
      1.   A description of all collocation and alternative sites that were
considered, including justifications as to why such sites were not selected.
      2.   Technical performance goals such as the desired signal strength
which the applicant wishes to achieve and, if requested by the Village,
engineering data, certified by the appropriate Illinois licensed professional,
establishing that such goals can be achieved by the proposed site.
      3.   Current radio frequency coverage maps showing the area to be served
and a radio frequency coverage prediction map that predicts coverage after the
new site is operational with sufficient detail to determine signal levels from
such maps.
      4.   The results of a drive-out test, if applicable, to confirm or refute
the projected coverage maps.
      5.   If a roof-mounted or building-attached facility is proposed, a
sketch or rendering of the building clearly indicating the location, type, and
height of the proposed personal wireless service facility and its relation to
the underlying building or structure; and elevation drawings of the proposed
panel, whip, monopole or mast antennas. The types of materials by which the
antenna is to be concealed or made to blend in with the materials of the
existing structure should be indicated.
      6.   If a freestanding antenna pole is proposed, a scaled site plan
clearly indicating the location, type, and height of the proposed personal
wireless service facility, on-site land uses, adjacent land uses, adjacent
roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation
drawings of the proposed monopole, mast, building, antenna array, fencing and
landscaping, and, if there is a single-family residential unit within three
hundred feet (300') of the facility, a scaled map indicating the distance
between the proposed personal wireless service facility and such single-family
residential unit; a landscape plan showing specific landscape materials should
be included; and the method of fencing and finished color and, if applicable,
the method of concealment and illumination.
      7.   A certification of a structural engineer licensed by the State,
stating that the proposed means of support of the antenna is structurally
sound. Where collocation is required, the structural engineer's certifications
shall address the silhouette and structural integrity of the proposed personal
wireless service facility for use and occupancy by two (2) telecommunications
providers.
      8.   A notarized letter signed by the applicant representing and
warranting that the personal wireless service facility will comply with all
applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and with this Code and, where
collocation is required, the proposed facility is designed to comply with such
requirement; and
      9.   A copy of the applicant's or owner's FCC license (certified as true
and correct by the applicant) to operate as a personal wireless service
provider (if required to be so licensed by the FCC) and, where the applicant or
owner is not the licensee, by copies of signed agreements with an FCC licensed
personal wireless service provider (if required to be so licensed by the FCC)
for the use or lease of the personal wireless service facility. (Ord. 99-3-4,
3-16-1999)
9-7-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No personal wireless service facility shall be lighted unless required
by the FAA or other Federal or State agency with authority to regulate. In the
event such lighting is required a description of the required lighting scheme
shall be filed with the Plan Commission as part of the special use application.
   B.   Unless required by State or Federal law, or by a rule of a State or
Federal regulatory agency, no signs or advertising of any kind shall be placed
on personal wireless service facility, other than operator identification signs
which shall be placed upon equipment boxes or buildings maintained by such
operator and no trespassing signs which shall be placed upon the fencing which
encloses the personal wireless service facility; provided, however, no more
than four (4) signs of each type shall be permitted, and the maximum square
footage of each such sign shall not exceed three (3) square feet.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, such signage shall be permitted only if adequate
landscape screening is provided in accordance with the recommendation of the
Plan Commission to shield such signage from view.
   C.   No shelter shall be used for office purposes, for storage of materials
or equipment not used directly in support of the personal wireless service
facility, or for any similar use.
   D.   The design of the personal wireless service facility shall receive
architectural review and approval from the Plan Commission in keeping with the
standards in this Chapter.
   E.   Any personal wireless service facility no longer used for its original
communications purpose shall be removed at the owner's expense. The owner and
applicable co-users shall provide the Village with a copy of any notice to the
FCC of intent to cease operations and shall have ninety (90) days from the date
of ceasing operations to remove the personal wireless service facility and any
related facilities. In the case of co-use, this provision shall not become
effective until all users cease operations. Any personal wireless service
facility not in use for a period of one year shall be deemed a public nuisance
and may be removed by the Village at the owner's expense. (Ord. 99-3-4, 3-16-
1999)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC LANDS
ARTICLE A. P-1 PUBLIC LANDS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8A-1: General Restrictions
9-8A-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Districts devoted to this use shall be supervised by the Village Board. Lands
within such use districts shall be devoted to public parks, recreation
facilities, Village facilities, public facilities such as libraries, or such
other public or Village uses as the Village Board may from time to time direct.
(Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
ARTICLE B. P-2 WILDLIFE PRESERVES DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8B-1: General Restrictions
9-8B-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Lands in this use district shall be devoted to the preservation of wildlife,
flora and fauna, in their natural habitats and shall not be used for
recreational facilities. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9A-1: Purpose Statement
9-9A-2: Application Of District
9-9A-3: Designation Of District
9-9A-4: Permitted Uses
9-9A-5: Special Uses
9-9A-6: Planned Development
9-9A-1: PURPOSE STATEMENT:
The purpose of the PD overlay district is to provide a means to foster the
creation and address the potential impacts of a planned community that may
include forms of multiple dwellings rather than only single family dwellings.
The district provides for flexibility in use of tracts receiving the PD overlay
designation through the planned development process. The overlay designation is
also intended to provide a means of adaptive reuse or incorporation of existing
buildings. (Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-2025)
9-9A-2: APPLICATION OF DISTRICT:
Except as noted below, the provisions of this article shall serve as a
supplement to the underlying zoning district regulations. (Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-
2025)
9-9A-3: DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT:
The village board of trustees, upon the recommendation of the plan commission,
and in accordance with the procedures for amending the zoning districts, as set
forth in chapter 11 of this title, may classify an area as an PD overlay
district. The area so designated shall be known as an overlay to the underlying
zoning district over which it is applied, and shall be assigned the designation
"PD overlay" on the zoning map. If a conflict arises between the regulations of
the underlying zoning district and this article, the provisions of this article
shall control. (Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-2025)
9-9A-4: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses shall be the uses listed as permitted or special uses in the
underlying zoning district over which the PD overlay classification is applied.
(Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-2025)
9-9A-5: SPECIAL USES:
A planned development, approved as provided in this article, shall be a special
use in the PD overlay district, applicable to the underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-2025)
9-9A-6: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
The following provisions shall govern the approval of a special use for a
planned development in the PD overlay district:
Purpose.
Minimum Area.
Uses Allowed.
Design Excellence.
Enhanced Design Standards.
Modifications.
Procedures.
Standards.
Preliminary Site Plan.
Final Development Plan.
Conditions of Development.
Conditions and Guarantees.
   A.   Goal and Purpose: The primary goal of the planned development
(sometimes referred to in this chapter as an "PD") is to preserve and maintain
the character of Riverwoods as a woodlands community. A primary purpose of the
PD is to encourage and allow more creative and imaginative design for land
developments than is possible under conventional district zoning regulations,
including residences at densities greater than one (1) dwelling per acre, while
enhancing sustainability and excellence in design and construction.
Preservation of natural site qualities, better amenities, more open space, and
a high quality project are the essential results of the planned development
process. The unique and substantially different character of planned
developments requires that they be authorized only as a "special use" in this
title. Planned developments are more complex and in order to assure the
benefits intended, such special uses require the establishment of specific and
additional procedures, standards and exceptions to govern the recommendations
of the village board.
      The following objectives may be obtained through the use of the planned
development procedure:
      1.   To permit a greater choice in types of housing available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this title, and is consistent with the
intent, goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that furthers the sustainability goals and standards
adopted by the village.
      3.   To promote better design and development in order to enhance the
quality of life of residents, through the inclusion of aesthetic amenities,
bicycle and pedestrian access, walking paths, dog runs, common areas and
playing areas, and with better concealment of parking and necessary
infrastructure.
      4.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, landscape design,
building forms and building relationships, with a possible mixing of different
uses in an innovative and harmonious design that establishes a sense of place
in keeping with the residential areas found throughout the village.
      5.   To enhance the appearance of the neighborhoods through the provision
of underground utilities, and the preservation of natural vegetation including
woodlands and wetlands, topographic and geological features and environmentally
appropriate features.
      6.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and the preservation of subsurface water.
      7.   To serve as a tool for preserving common open space for the
continuous use and enjoyment of the residents and users of the development.
      8.   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreational
facilities, schools and other public and private facilities.
      9.   To promote orderly and sensible arrangement of networks of
utilities, circulation, parking, bicycle and pedestrian access and other
facilities.
      10.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of architectural,
natural and/or historic landmarks.
      11.   To serve as a tool to ensure that the form and intensity of the
development are consistent with the availability of limited public resources
and public services, and will promote the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare.
   B.   Minimum Area: A minimum site of eight (8) acres shall be required for
all PDs.
   C.   Uses Allowed: The PD may authorize single family dwellings and multiple
dwellings, as defined in this title, and accessory buildings for amenities and
recreational uses.
   D.   Design Excellence: Excellence in design is the minimum standard for
approval. The plan commission shall not recommend approval of a PD unless it
finds each of the following to be represented by the proposed PD:
      1.   Site design excellence is the primary public benefit of a PD, and a
fundamental threshold for PD approval. The application for a PD shall include a
preliminary site plan as described below and the applicant's narrative
explanation of how the proposed site plan will:
         a.   Emphasize the natural conditions which preceded the development.
         b.   Be respectful of the character and condition of the surrounding
properties.
         c.   Reflect an organic (not rigid) organization of buildings,
roadways, open spaces, and activity areas that extends the woodland character
of the Village.,
         d.   Organize buildings, landscaping and site improvements to reflect
a priority on both visual and acoustical privacy for residents within the PD
and for residents on adjoining properties.
         e.   Not be so overcrowded as to cause unbalanced relationships of
building to open space.
         f.   Provide landscaped areas beyond the minimum required, including
in usable common areas, emphasizing the use of native plants and preferably
exhibiting continuity throughout the development.
         g.   Incorporate sustainable and environmentally sound design, such as
inclusion of natural storm water detention and retention systems, water
efficiency and water conservation systems, post-development storm water runoff
reduction and mitigation systems, bird-friendly construction standards and
design features, electric vehicle charging outlets and/or charging stations,
and incorporation of renewable sources of energy such as geothermal, solar and
wind energy.
      2.   Preservation of usable open space left substantially in a natural
state or improved by landscaping and primarily designed and intended for the
active or passive recreation of the occupants of the dwellings. Usable open
spaces qualify as such when they are not covered by vehicular roadways, parking
areas and communal facilities of a non-recreational nature, but they may
include walkways, structures intended for recreational nature and children's
playing area or areas. Open space becomes a strong asset when views into the
space are available from public rights-of-way and from inside private building
spaces. Remnant space, not designed to be used for active or passive recreation
and not benefitted by benches or other amenities, do not constitute usable open
space. Open space areas shall not be unduly isolated from one another by
unrelated obstructions such as buildings and paved vehicular areas, but rather,
shall be linked by open space corridors of reasonable width. The floor plans of
residential units shall have proper orientation, access and view to adjacent
private and public open space.
      3.   Circulation roadways (for automobiles and trucks) and points of
ingress/egress to public rights-of-way shall be kept to the minimum number and
width necessary to provide safe and efficient access to all units, while
circulation and amenities for pedestrians and bicyclists shall be maximized.
Where possible, roadways should be curvilinear (consistent with the character
of other existing roadways in the village) so as to preserve and respect the
natural features and conditions of the property. Thru traffic shall be
discouraged and the intrusion of automobiles into the privacy of residential
environments shall be minimized while maintaining the convenience of access
between the units and guest parking areas.
      4.   Sustainable and ample site landscaping shall be used to reinforce
the village's woodland environment, provide screening and buffering to soften
the views of site improvements, provide shade, seasonal color and visual
diversity, control erosion and storm water run-off, and provide accents to
building entries and architectural features. The natural topographic and
landscape features of the site shall be incorporated in the development. Plants
and trees acknowledged to be native and hardy within the Chicago region should
be emphasized and all materials should be drought and cold tolerant. Existing
trees shall be retained or replaced in compliance with the village's woodland
protection ordinance. Adequate building setbacks, open spaces and landscaped
buffers shall be provided around the perimeter of the property.
      5.   Building forms should reflect or resemble single-family detached
forms (especially as to massing and height) which are the predominant and
traditional building form in the village. Buildings shall be sited in an
orderly fashion in sympathy with the natural features of the site. Excessively
long unbroken building facades shall be avoided. Where multi- buildings are
proposed, they should incorporate horizontal dominance, and elements of
rooflines, fenestration, and building accents that are commonly found in
single-family homes in the village. All buildings shall incorporate energy
efficient design in orientation, materials, lighting and HVAC systems.
      6.   Building materials shall be compatible with those that predominate
Riverwoods architecture, including primary exterior vertical surfaces in wood,
brick, stone, natural stucco and glass, with accent materials of coated metal,
decorative stone, wood, and finished concrete. Material and color palettes
should be complementary across all of the buildings within the PD and used so
as to avoid monotony and to differentiate individual units within multi-
structures.
      7.   Storm water should be managed on site so as to meet all village and
Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance requirements. Stormwater detention
or retention facilities shall be naturalized, sustainable, biologically diverse
and integrated into the site design as a usable open space and landscape
amenity.
   E.   Enhanced Design Standards: When applications for an PD include
modifications from the underlying zoning standards, the design and development
shall meet all the following design standards and be confirmed as findings of
the board of trustees under section
9-9A-6-H:
      1.   Integrated Design: An PD shall be laid out and developed in
accordance with an integrated overall design. This design shall provide for
safe, efficient, convenient and harmonious grouping of structures, uses and
facilities, and for appropriate relation of space inside and outside buildings
to intended uses and structural features.
      2.   Beneficial Common Open Space: Any common open space in the
development shall be integrated into the overall design. Such spaces shall have
a direct functional or visual relationship to the main buildings and not be of
isolated or leftover character.
      3.   Functional And Mechanical Features: Exposed storage areas, trash and
garbage retainers, exposed machinery installation, service areas, truck loading
areas, utility buildings and structures, and similar accessory areas and
structures shall be accounted for in the design of the project and made as
unobtrusive as possible. They shall be subject to such setbacks, special
planting or other screening methods as shall reasonably be required to prevent
their being incongruous with the existing or contemplated environment and the
surrounding properties.
      4.   Visual And Acoustical Privacy: The development shall provide ample
visual and acoustical privacy for each dwelling unit. Fences, insulations,
walks, barriers and landscaping shall be used as appropriate for the protection
and aesthetic enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants,
screening of objectionable views or uses and reduction of noises.
      5.   Ownership Plan: The development may consist of conventionally
subdivided lots to be sold, unsubdivided single ownership, separate condominium
ownership of structures, or other ownership methods, provided that the
ownership plan ensures the continued maintenance of the properties and of the
various amenities and conservation and design features of the PD as a whole.
      6.   Energy Efficient Design: A PD shall be designed with consideration
given to various methods of site design and building location, architectural
design of individual structures and landscaping design capable of reducing
energy consumption within the development. Design features or facilities which
utilize solar or wind energy, or which effectively reduce consumption or use of
water, motor vehicles' nonrenewable energy sources or sewage treatment
facilities will be encouraged .
      7.   Landscape Conservation And Visual Enhancement: The landscape in a PD
shall be conserved and enhanced, with special emphasis on the preservation and
restoration of protected woodlands. Development activity should minimize tree,
non-invasive native plant understory and soil removal, and respect the
conservation of special landscape features such as streams, ponds, groves and
land forms. The addition or use of native trees, shrubs and flowers, fountains,
ponds, special paving materials, benches and seating areas, special lighting
fixtures and other amenities will be encouraged and expected to be maintained.
      8.   Drives, Parking And Circulation: Principal vehicular access shall be
from major streets, and access points shall be designed to encourage smooth
traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to vehicular
or pedestrian traffic. With respect to vehicular and pedestrian circulation,
including walkways, interior drives and parking, special attention shall be
given to location and number of access points, general interior circulation,
separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, adequate provision for service
by emergency vehicles and arrangement of parking areas that are safe and
convenient and that do not detract from the design of proposed buildings and
structures and the neighboring properties.
      9.   Relationship To Public Facilities And Utilities: The development
shall be so designed as to have access to such facilities and utilities in the
same degree as would development under existing zoning, and shall be so
located, designed and scaled that access of public services is equivalent to,
and net costs for such services is not greater than, access and net costs for
public services for development as permitted under existing zoning.
      10.   Surface Water Drainage: Special attention shall be given to proper
site surface drainage so that removal of surface waters will not adversely
affect neighboring properties or the public storm drainage system. Surface
water in all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it will not
obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Modifications: Modifications in conventional zoning and subdivision
regulations are privileges and will be considered by the village board only in
direct response to the accrual of tangible benefits from the PD to the village
or the neighborhood in which it would be located. These benefits shall be in
the form of exceptional amenities; outstanding environmental, landscape,
architectural or site design; or the conservation of special man-made or
natural features of the site. No modifications shall be granted unless the
board of trustees makes the required findings that the standards for the PD and
any proposed modifications have been satisfied in accordance with section
9-9A-6-H.
      Requirements governing the development under the Riverwoods subdivision
ordinance, including sidewalks, streets, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, water, lighting, landscaping, parking and retention/detention
facilities shall be modified only as specifically provided for in the special
use ordinance authorizing the PD.
      Except as set forth below, requirements under the Riverwoods zoning
ordinance regarding the yard, lot area, lot width, lot shape, lot coverage,
dwelling density, height and dwelling size requirements and the limits on
combinations of principal structures and uses shall be modified only as
specifically provided for in the special use ordinance authorizing the PD.
      Notwithstanding the general authority to grant modifications for yards
and dwelling densities, the following specific limitations shall apply:
      1.   The required yards along the periphery of the PD shall be at least
equal in width or depth to those of the directly adjacent zoning district(s),
not counting districts removed by the presence of an intervening publicly
dedicated street right of way.
      2.   Modifications to Density: The density of an PD shall not exceed the
amount or number of dwellings allowed under the requirements of the R-1 forty-
two thousand (42,000) square feet single-family residential district unless the
applicant demonstrates a specific public benefit provided by design features
that go above the minimum standards of design excellence by satisfying the
enhanced design standards in section 9-9A-6-E and those listed below in this
section
9-9A-6-F-2; provided, however, the maximum density of an PD shall not exceed
six (6) dwellings for every forty thousand (40,000) gross square feet of land
area. The eligible design features of public benefit are:
         a.   Improvements, dedications, and amenities that benefit the
village.
         b.   Adaptive reuse of existing structures.
         c.   Sustainable design and construction, LEED design gold, energy
star-certified appliances and equipment.
         d.   Alternative energy sources (solar, wind, geothermal, etc.).
         e.   Green roofs, rain gardens, food forests.
         f.   EV charging stations.
         g.   Habitat restoration.
         h.   Public open spaces.
         i.   Filling in missing links to public walking and bicycling paths
and trails, sidewalks, and utility easements.
         j.   Stormwater detention capacity beyond site needs.
         k.   Water efficiency and conservation.
   G.   Procedures: A PD shall be reviewed as a "special use" in accordance
with the procedures and standards of this section, and shall be processed in
three stages as set forth below. Additional requirements regarding the
processing of applications, including public hearing procedures and the
requirements for the recording of plats shall be set forth in various
administrative procedure documents, as amended from time to time. Fees shall be
set by the village board, and a list of such shall be kept on file in the
office of the village clerk.
      1.   The Applicant: The application for a PD shall be either the
authorized agent of all of the owners of record of the property which comprises
the PD or the contract purchaser, with consent of all owners, provided:
         a.   That the application shall be submitted in the name of the owners
of record, and
         b.   That the party petitioning for the PD shall disclose his interest
in the property, such as an equitable interest via a purchase contract for all
or a portion of the property in question.
      2.   Pre-Application Conference:
         a.   A request for a pre-application conference shall be made in
writing to the village. At least two (2) weeks prior to the conference, the
applicant shall provide written or graphic information as to the location, size
and uses in the proposed development and a list of all requested modifications
to the subdivision code and zoning ordinance. Prior to the conference, a
standing technical committee whose members may include the mayor, the chair of
the plan commission, the director of community services, the village attorney,
the consultant village planner, the consultant village engineer, the consultant
village ecologist, the chief of police, the fire chief (of the applicable fire
protection district) and any other member selected by the mayor for assistance
with technical review, will review the proposal for its compatibility with the
comprehensive plan and the general planning policies and precedents of the
village.
         b.   At the conference, the standing technical committee will inform
the applicant of the results of the preliminary review and of the information,
materials and documentation that must be submitted for a formal application.
         c.   Within two (2) weeks after the conference, the standing technical
committee will submit a report to the board of trustees.
         d.   An application fee as set forth is the village's fee schedule
must be paid to the village by the applicant at the time of the initial pre-
application conference.
      3.   Conceptual Presentations:
         a.   Plan Commission: Following the standing technical committee
meeting, the applicant will conduct a conceptual presentation to the plan
commission at a regularly scheduled plan commission meeting. The commission may
provide feedback to the applicant regarding documentation, graphics,
investigations or other studies of potential impact that would be anticipated
prior to a public hearing on the PD.
         b.   Neighborhood: Following the standing technical committee meeting,
the applicant should, independent of the village, invite neighbors within the
vicinity of the proposed PD to attend an informational meeting with the
applicant to allow for informal and informative dialog about the proposed PD.
Such a meeting, though optional, is strongly encouraged, and is not intended to
involve or include the plan commission or village board representatives.
      4.   Preliminary Site Plan:
         a.   Upon completion of the above pre-application procedures, the
applicant may then make formal application to the director of community
services requesting a special use permit for a planned development on forms
provided by the village, and include copies of a preliminary site plan
containing the information required in subsection
9-9A-6-H. This preliminary site plan shall be the subject of a public hearing
before the plan commission, as regulated in section
9-11-9, special uses.
         b.   Upon determination that the application is complete, the director
of community services shall forward one copy of the preliminary site plan and
special use permit documents to each of the following persons within five (5)
working days of receipt thereof from the applicant: village president and
trustees, all members of the plan commission, the village clerk, village
engineer, the village planner and the village attorney. The balance of the
copies of the documents shall be held on file by the director of community
services for use by other public officials as may be required.
         c.   The plan commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit applicant in accordance with
applicable statutes.
         d.   Within forty-five (45) days after the adjournment of the public
hearing, the plan commission shall submit in writing its finding of facts and
recommendations to the village board and the applicant, based on the standards
set forth in subsection
9-9A-6-G.
         e.   The board of trustees shall approve, approve with conditions and
modifications or reject the preliminary site plan within a reasonable amount of
time, usually within sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting following
the receipt of the written recommendation of the plan commission.
         (1)   If the preliminary site plan is not approved, the village board
shall state in writing the reasons for the decision and such writing, if
prepared, shall be filed with the village clerk, and a copy shall be sent to
the applicant.
         (2)   If the preliminary site plan is approved or approved with
conditions and modifications, the village board shall authorize the applicant
to submit a final development plan for the planned development.
      5.   Final Development Plan:
         a.   Within one (1) year following the approval of the preliminary
site plan, the applicant shall file with the village a final development plan
for the proportion of the project area identified in the preliminary phasing
plan approved as part of the preliminary site plan approval as the "first
phase" of the subject site containing, in final form, the information required
in the preliminary site plan and additional information as required in
subsection
9-9A-6-I. Within three (3) years following the approval of the preliminary site
plan, the applicant shall have filed with the village a final development plan
for all portions of the subject site.
         b.   The plan commission shall review each final development plan with
regard to its conformance to the approved preliminary site plan and to the
final development plan requirements, and shall submit its report and
recommendations to the village board its findings regarding substantial
conformance to the approved preliminary site plan, within forty-five (45) days.
         c.   The village board, after receipt of the report and
recommendations of the plan commission shall review each final development
plan, and if it is determined to be in substantial conformance with the
approved preliminary site plan and in conformance with the final development
plan requirements, will authorize by ordinance the issuance of a special use
permit.
         d.   If any final development plan is held to be not in substantial
conformance with the preliminary site plan or not in conformance with the final
development plan requirements, the village board shall inform the applicant of
the specific areas found deficient. The applicant may request from the village
board an extension of time to bring each final development plan into
conformance and to complete the requirements, or may request a new public
hearing under the procedures established for approval of a preliminary site
plan.
         e.   Once the special use permit is issued, the village clerk shall
amend the official zoning map of the village to show the approved underlying
zoning district and the number of the ordinance approving the special use
permit.
   H.   Standards: In reviewing an application for a PD, the village board will
be required to make certain findings based on the standards below:
      1.   Required Findings: No applicant for a PD shall be approved unless
all of the following findings are made about the proposal:
         a.   Comprehensive Plan: It shall conform with the comprehensive plan
and the general planning policies and precedents of the village, particularly
with reference to the following:
         (1)   Land use policies.
         (2)   Sustainable practices and environmental protection.
         (3)   Land use intensity.
         (4)   Housing goals.
         (5)   Traffic impact and parking.
         (6)   Impact on schools, public utilities and facilities.
         (7)   The character of the village and the specific neighborhood.
         (8)   The conservation and enhancement of the tax base and economic
well-being of the village.
         b.   Permitted Uses: Each of the proposed uses is a permitted or
special use in the district or districts in which the PD would be located, in
accordance with this chapter.
         c.   Affordable Housing: The PD includes an affordable housing plan in
compliance with the village's affordable housing ordinance.
         d.   Public Welfare: It shall be so designed, located and proposed to
be operated and maintained that the public health, safety and welfare will not
be endangered or detrimentally affected.
         e.   Impact On Other Property: It shall not substantially lessen or
impede the suitability for permitted use and development of, or be injurious to
the use and enjoyment of, or substantially diminish or impair the value of, or
be incompatible with, other property in the immediate vicinity.
         f.   Impact On Public Facilities And Resources: It shall not create an
adverse impact on municipal facilities, parks and recreation, schools, fire and
police protection, or the resources to support them.
         g.   Infrastructure: It shall have or make provision for adequate
utilities, drainage and other necessary facilities.
         h.   Parking And Traffic: It shall have or make adequate provision for
parking, ingress, and egress and be so designed as to minimize traffic
congestion and hazards in the public streets.
         i.   Adequate Buffering: It shall have adequate site area, which area
may be greater than the minimum in the district in which the proposed site is
located, and other buffering features to protect uses within the development
and on surrounding properties.
         j.   Performance: There shall be reasonable assurance that if
authorized, the PD will be completed according to schedule and adequately
maintained.
         k.   Modifications. The development satisfies the enhanced design
standards in this chapter required as a condition of granting modifications.
   I.   Preliminary Site Plan: The following items constitute the minimum
requirements for the contents of a preliminary site plan but the foregoing list
may be adjusted by the director of community services as appropriate to the
specific development. The applicant should feel free to supplement the list
with whatever materials deemed appropriate to illustrate compliance with the
regulations and intent of this section. Maps which shall be included as part of
the application shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred feet to one inch (100-
1") or, if the area of the site is more than two hundred (200) acres, two
hundred feet to one inch (200-1"). All maps shall be dated and include a scale
and north point.
      1.   A legal description of the site.
      2.   A boundary line survey of the site prepared and certified by a
registered land surveyor within the past ninety (90) days, showing the
dimensions of the property's boundaries and all existing rights of way adjacent
to the property.
      3.   Existing and proposed topography of the land with contours shown at
intervals no greater than two feet (2'). Topographic data shall refer to the
U.S.G.S. North American Datum-Mean Sea Level Elevation.
      4.   Existing and proposed landscape features including existing
protected woodlands, significant tree groupings, isolated preservable trees six
inches (6") or more in diameter at one foot (1') above ground level, endangered
native plants and/or animals, scenic views and other natural features such as
lakes, ponds, waterways, wetlands, floodplains, etc.
      5.   Existing zoning and land uses on and adjacent to the site.
      6.   Village, school district and park district boundary lines on or
adjacent to the site.
      7.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
building heights, number of stories, gross floor areas, floor area ratios and
entrances.
      8.   All proposed uses, including statistical tabulation of the acreage
amounts of all uses, the number, size and the type of dwellings in all
structures, and the dwelling density.
      9.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed streets, curb
cuts, aisles, bicycle paths and walkways, the number and location of all
parking spaces and loading areas and the names of all streets. If the exact use
of the site is not known at the time of a site plan submittal, parking and
loading requirements shall be calculated for the general use having the
greatest parking and loading requirements.
      10.   All areas to be dedicated as common open space, designated for
easements, and all sites to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for parks,
playgrounds, prairies, woodlands, conservation areas, school sites, public
buildings and similar public and quasi-public uses, together with the proposed
plan for the permanent maintenance of such common open space areas.
      11.   A utility concept plan, including the location of all existing
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water lines on the site and on property
immediately adjacent to the site. Similar information shall be provided for
gas, electric, telephone and cable television utilities. The utility concept
plan shall be accompanied by a statement from the village engineer attesting to
the capability of existing systems to service the proposed development.
      12.   A storm water drainage plan, identifying portions of the site in
the flood plain or in flood plain fringe areas, the existing and proposed flow
and storm drainage, and the location of drainage ditches, culverts, standing
water and proposed detention/retention facilities.
      13.   A plan for wetland delineation, preservation, enhancement or
mitigation.
      14.   Soil problem areas based on a soil survey of the site including a
report from the soil conservation service. Additional soil information may be
requested by the plan commission and/or the village engineer.
      15.   Location, height and material for all screening walls and fences,
the location and direction of proposed lighting facilities and the location and
dimensions of each outdoor trash storage area.
      16.   A detailed listing of all requested modifications to zoning and
subdivision requirements, and the reasons why such modifications are deemed to
be in the public interest.
      17.   Other information requested by the plan commission or the village
board as necessary to reasonably clarify the proposal and its impact or
economic feasibility. Such information may include but not be limited to any of
the following:
         a.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the planned development and proposing any
special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation devices needed to
ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through and around the
planned development or any phase of it.
         b.   Tax and school impact study detailing the impact the planned
development will have on all taxing bodies. In addition, the expected number of
students to be generated by any residential portion of the planned development
shall also be quantified, and estimates made, as to the projected revenues and
expenditures by the village attributable to the development.
         c.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height,
size, location, quantities and variety of plant materials.
         d.   An analysis of the marketability of proposed sale or rental
properties or of the demand for proposed services or uses.
   J.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Contents: Each final development plan shall include the following:
         a.   All of the information required for the approved preliminary site
plan, updated and in final form.
         b.   A Preliminary Subdivision Plat or, at the applicant's option, a
final subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all
requirements of the Riverwoods subdivision control ordinance, to the extent
that compliance with the subdivision regulation of the village shall be
required by the village board of trustees.
         c.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space.
         d.   Certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication of
land and recording of the document.
         e.   A copy of the formal agreement with a public agency or private
association for the ownership and maintenance of the common open space and
drainageways.
         f.   A restrictive covenant in a form acceptable to the village
attorney limiting development of, and construction upon, the tract as a whole
to such development and construction as shall comply with the final development
plan and the special use permit granted by the village board, which document
shall include a provision granting the Village a right to enforce the same.
         g.   Final landscape plan for all rights of way, common areas and
conservation easements on builder lots, indicating the height, size, location,
quantity and variety of all plant materials, and a suitable process for
approval of landscape plans for dedicated conservation easements on custom
lots.
         h.   Final engineering drawings including the final utility plan.
         i.   Final architectural design development drawings, including plans,
elevations and sections for all major structures on builder lots, and a
suitable process for approval of architectural drawings for all major
structures on custom lots.
         j.   Proof of all applicable approvals from state and county officials
or from other agencies outside the Village having jurisdiction.
         k.   A schedule for construction of all phases of the development,
including landscaping, utilities and site amenities indicating when each phase
can be expected to begin and end.
      2.   Permitted Changes: Minor changes from the approved preliminary site
plan may be allowed in the final development plan without a public hearing,
provided such changes are determined to be minor by the village board after
review and recommendation by the plan commission. A change shall not be
considered minor if it includes any of the following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development.
         b.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall coverage
of structures.
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use.
         d.   A relocation of any street, curb cut or intersection of more than
ten feet (10') in a manner which would increase the problems of traffic
circulation or public utilities, or which would cause a significant negative
impact upon the buffer or open space scheme.
         e.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space.
         f.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading spaces.
         g.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
         h.   A change in the arrangement or location of principal structures
or uses by more than ten feet (10').
         i.   A reduction in total storm water detention capacity or an
increase in the design rate of storm water discharge from the site.
      Changes in addition to or in excess of the limits described above shall
be considered major changes and require submission of a new application which
shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required for the original
application.
   K.   Conditions of Development: After the approval of the Final Development
Plan, the use of land and construction, modification or alteration of any
buildings or structures within the PD will be governed by the approved Final
Development Plan and all applicable Village ordinances not specifically waived
in the ordinance granting a special use permit for the PD. In addition, the
following conditions apply to the construction of a PD:
      1.   Construction in accordance with the final development plan shall
commence within one year. If the applicant fails to commence within that
period, the board of trustees, pursuant to the terms of the special use
ordinance granting approval, at its option, may vote to repeal such ordinance,
thereby rendering null and void the final development plan approval of the PD,
all prior plan approvals upon which final development plan approval depends,
and the special use permit for the PD. Alternatively, the board of trustees, it
its discretion, may grant extensions in accordance with subsection
9-9A-6-K-2 below.
      2.   The village board may extend the time limit for the commencement of
construction as follows:
         a.   If a delay, or anticipated delay, is caused by governmental
action without fault on the part of the developer, an extension may be granted
for a period not longer than the period of the governmental delay.
         b.   For good cause shown, an extension may be granted for such period
of time as the village board deems appropriate, but not exceeding twelve (12)
months exclusive of extensions authorized under subsection
9-9A-6-K-2a, above.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for any construction in a PD, nor shall
any use of the properties commence until the developer posts with the village a
sum in cash, negotiable securities surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit
running to the village in an amount sufficient to cover the full cost,
including engineering, legal and inspection fees and costs, plus twenty five
percent (25%) of such total, to ensure the satisfactory installation of all
streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention areas and all other public
improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be based on confirmed
estimates approved by the village Engineer and all guarantees except cash and
negotiable securities shall be reviewed by the village attorney for conformance
to village ordinances. If a surety bond is submitted, it shall have good and
sufficient surety thereon and shall not be accepted until approved by the
president and board of trustees. If the PD is to be constructed and developed
in stages or phases, the deposit of cash or securities or the bond posted,
shall be in an amount based upon the confirmed estimated cost of installation
of improvements in the respective stage or phase as approved by the village
engineer.
      4.   No changes shall be made in the approved final development plan,
except with the approval of the village board according to the same limitations
and procedure set forth in subsection 9-9A-6-I-2. Any approved changes must be
recorded as amendments to the recorded copy of the final development plan. If
the approved change is related to any of the approved plans or drawings,
amended plans or drawings must be filed with the village and recorded. No
changes may be made in the final development plan unless they are required for
the continued successful functioning of the PD, or unless they are required by
changes in conditions that have occurred since the final development plan was
approved or by changes in the development policy in the village.
      5.   The village board may at any time request written reports on the
progress and development of the proposed PD. If the village board is satisfied
that the permittee has, for not less than one year, abandoned the development
of the PD or failed to follow the final development plan, it shall hold a
public hearing for the purpose of considering the revocation of all permits
issued and action taken herein. Written notice of said hearing shall be sent by
certified mail (return receipt) to the permittee at the business address stated
in the application for the PD. If the village board finds that the permittee
has abandoned the development of the proposed PD or failed to follow the final
development plan, it may then revoke all permits issued and action taken herein
and repeal the special use ordinance authorizing the PD.
      6.   Any building or structure within the PD that is totally or
substantially destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final
development plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved
following the procedures required for the original application.
   L.   Conditions and Guarantees: Prior to granting a special use permit for a
PD development, the plan commission may recommend, and the village board
stipulate by ordinance, such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance and operation of the PD
development as deemed necessary for the protection and requirements specified
herein or as may be, from time to time, required. In all cases in which PD
developments are approved, the village board shall require such evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith are being and will be complied with. (Ord. 25-02-02, 2-18-
2025)
ARTICLE B. SS AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9B-1: Permitted Uses
9-9B-2: Special Uses
9-9B-3: Area Requirements
9-9B-4: Building Height
9-9B-5: Yard Requirements
9-9B-6: Lighting
9-9B-7: Building Materials
9-9B-8: Driveways
9-9B-9: Screening
9-9B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Automobile service stations as defined in section
9-2-3 of this title.
Signs, when such are in conformance with title 12 of this code. (Ord. 190, 3-
19-1973)
9-9B-2: SPECIAL USES:
As in CR-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There shall not be less than forty five thousand (45,000)
square feet of lot area per service station unit excluding road easements. No
building or structure (including gasoline pumps) nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the yards
and lot area herein specified are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.
   B.   Floor Area: Buildings shall have a ground floor area of not less than
one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet. Only one building shall be
allowed per lot.
   C.   Frontage: No lot shall have a frontage of less than one hundred feet
(100') nor more than two hundred fifty feet (250'). The average lot width shall
be no less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged to exceed a height of one
story or twelve feet (12'). (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: All new structures permitted in this district shall be set
back from the front street line a distance of not less than sixty feet (60').
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than thirty feet (30'). On a corner lot there shall be a front yard on
each street side of said lot.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided a rear yard of not less than forty
feet (40'). (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-6: LIGHTING:
Outdoor lighting fixtures shall not be located so as to cause direct view from
any lots adjacent to the lot whereon they are situated. In no case shall such
outdoor lights illuminate the ground level of any point on the lot to a greater
intensity than five (5) lumens per square foot. Light standards shall not be
higher than twenty feet (20') above ground elevation. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-7: BUILDING MATERIALS:
As in CR-1 districts. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-9B-8: DRIVEWAYS:
Driveways shall be of asphaltic or portland cement concrete. (Ord. 190, 3-19-
1973)
9-9B-9: SCREENING:
Any lot line of a lot in this classification which is common with a lot of any
other classification shall be masked by an evergreen planting screen at least
eight feet (8') in height and not less than twenty feet (20') wide. (Ord. 190,
3-19-1973)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-10-1: Off Street Parking
9-10-2: Off Street Loading Facilities
9-10-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, one hundred eighty (180) square feet
of lot or floor area which has a means of ingress and egress from a public or
private vehicle easement or right of way, shall be deemed parking space for one
vehicle. Such space shall not occupy any part of any front yard but, where
open, may be included as part of an open space for side or rear yard. On corner
or through lots, parking space may not be included as part of required yards
laying adjacent to either street. Parking spaces and driveways providing access
thereto that are required in residential districts shall be surfaced with an
all weather dustproof material.
   B.   Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall be hard
surfaced and graded so as to drain off all surface water to adequate drainage
structures. Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as
to reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in the residential
district. Such parking spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the
occupants of the building or lots, their customers or visitors thereto.
Churches, theaters, stadiums, auditoriums and other places of assembly may make
arrangements for joint use of parking spaces as hereinafter specified.
   C.   In any district, except as noted below, every building built or
structurally altered, enlarged or increased in capacity, and every land use
initiated subsequent to the adoption of this section shall be provided with
minimum off street parking facilities as follows:
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,      1 parking space for each 5 seats or
stadiums, theaters, and other places of bench seating spaces, based upon
public or private assembly with fixed   maximum seating capacity
seats
Hospitals                               1 parking space for each 3 hospital
                                        beds
Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and       1 parking space for each guest sleeping
fraternal homes                         room
One- and two-family dwellings and       1 parking space for each dwelling unit
multiple-family dwelling
Tourist courts and motels               1 parking space for each lodging unit
                                        1 parking space for each transient
                                        sleeping room offered for tourist
Tourist homes                           accommodation in addition to parking
                                        spaces required for permanent residents
                                        of the building
For the purpose of this type of use, parking spaces already provided to meet
off street parking requirements for stores, office buildings and industrial
establishments, or off street parking facilities provided by the municipality,
lying within 300 feet of the place of public assembly as measured along the
lines of public access, and that are not normally in use between the hours of
6:00 P.M. and 12:00 midnight, and are made available for other parking may be
used to meet up to 75 percent of the total requirements of parking space for
places of public assembly.
                                        1 parking space for each 200 square
Dance halls, bowling alleys and private feet of floor area, to be provided on
clubs                                   the premises or within 300 feet of the
                                        entrance
                                        15 parking spaces on the premises, plus
Funeral homes                           5 spaces for each area which can be
                                        used as a parlor
                                        1 parking space for each 2 employees,
                                        based on the greatest number of
Manufacturing establishments            employees at work at one time, to be
                                        provided on the premises or at other
                                        off street locations within 1,000 feet
                                        of the main entrance
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of store space, to be provided on
                                        the premises or within 200 feet of the
Stores and other retail establishments  entrances and off of the street, except
where such uses are permitted           that restaurants or establishments
                                        whose primary use is to serve meals and
                                        refreshments to patrons shall provide 1
                                        parking space for each 100 square feet
                                        of floor space in the building
Wholesale and distributing
establishments including telephone      1 parking space for each 2 employees
exchanges
 
   D.   Parking space required under this section may be reduced at a time the
capacity or use of a building is changed in such a manner that a new use or
capacity would require less space than before the change. Such reduction may
not be below the standards set forth for the new use.
   E.   Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas.
   F.   The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where
major parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different
hours, provided: 1) that parking spaces will be available for each use in
accordance with the above standards, and 2) that the owners agree in writing
that any subsequent sale or division of the property or change in use thereof
will not interfere with the joint use of the parking facilities.
   G.   A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each application for a
building permit, or certificate of compliance, or application for rezoning. The
completion of the improvements for parking according to such plan shall be a
requisite for the validity of the permit or certificate. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-10-2: OFF STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof erected hereafter to be
used for other than exclusively dwelling purposes or as an accessory use for
dwelling purposes, there shall be provided on the lot adequate space for motor
vehicles in order to avoid undue interference with the public use of the
street. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include a
ten foot by twenty five foot (10' x 25') loading space with fifteen foot (15')
height clearance, and one such space shall be provided for each twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet or fraction thereof of floor or lot area used for other
than residential purposes. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-11-1: Zoning Officer
9-11-2: Building Officer
9-11-3: Board Of Appeals
9-11-4: Plan Commission
9-11-5: Procedures For Administrative Functions
9-11-6: Variations
9-11-7: Appeals
9-11-8: Amendments
9-11-9: Special Uses
9-11-10: Requirements For Applications For Amendments, Special Uses Or
Variations
9-11-11: Violations; Penalty
9-11-12: Residential Planned Unit Development
9-11-13: Social Service Centers
9-11-14: Transitional Residences
9-11-1: ZONING OFFICER:
The enforcing officer of this title shall be the village zoning officer. The
zoning officer, and such deputy officers as he may appoint, with approval of
the village board, shall:
   A.   Maintain permanent and current records of the ordinances, including,
but not limited to, maps, amendments, special uses, variations, appeals and
applications therefor.
   B.   Receive, file and forward to the village board for action all
applications for special uses or petitions for amendments to this title.
   C.   Receive from any source applications for special uses or amendments
which have been introduced in the village board, and transmit copies of same to
the plan commission for review and recommendations.
   D.   Receive from the plan commission recommendations on all amendments and
special uses, and transmit same to the village board, together with the
recommendations of the building officer.
   E.   Receive and file copies of all applications for appeals, variations and
other matters on which the board of appeals is required to pass under this
title.
   F.   Provide such assistance as may be required by the board of appeals in
the exercise of its duties.
9-11-2: BUILDING OFFICER:
The Building Officer and such building inspectors as he may appoint, with the
approval of the Village Board shall:
   A.   Issue all building permits and forward records and copies thereof to
the Zoning Officer.
   B.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance to the terms of this Title.
   C.   Issue all certificates of occupancy and forward records and copies
thereof to the Zoning Officer.
9-11-3: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Jurisdiction and Authority: The Board of Appeals, as appointed by the
President and approved by the Board of Trustees 1 , is hereby invested with the
following jurisdiction and authority.
      1.   To receive from the Village Board and to hear and decide appeals
from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Officer under this Title.
      2.   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board upon
applications for variations from the terms provided in this Title, in the
manner and subject to the standards set forth in this Chapter.
      3.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this Title.
   B.   Decisions:
      1.   All decisions and findings of the Board of Appeals on variations
arrived at after hearing shall in all instances be referred to the Village
Board with report and recommendations.
      2.   The Village Board, upon report of the Board of Appeals, without
further public hearing, may adopt any proposed variation or may refer it back
to the Board of Appeals for further consideration, and any proposed variation
which fails to receive the approval of the Board of Appeals shall not be passed
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the Village
Board.
      3.   All decisions and findings of the Board of Appeals on appeals from
the Building Officer shall in all instances be final administrative
determinations.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 3 of this Code.
9-11-4: PLAN COMMISSION:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The Plan Commission, as appointed by the President and
approved by the Board of Trustees 1 , shall have the following duties under
this Title:
      1.   To receive from the Village Board all applications for amendments or
special uses, to make recommendations thereon, and to forward such
recommendations to the Village Board.
      2.   To hold public hearings in matters pertaining to amendments or
special uses, and to submit reports to the Village Board setting froth its
findings and recommendations in the manner prescribed in this Chapter for
amendments and special uses.
      3.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this Title, and to make reports of its recommendations to the
Village Board once a year.
      4.   The Plan Commission shall have such other and general powers as are
conferred by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-5 2  and may further
exercise such powers as were previously conferred upon it by ordinance prior to
the effective date of the Illinois Municipal Code.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
2 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5.
9-11-5: PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS:
   A.   Zoning Certificates: No permit pertaining to the use of land or
buildings shall be issued unless the Zoning Officer has certified after
examination that it complies with all provisions of this title.
   B.   Occupancy Permits: No land shall be occupied or used and no building
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or used in whole or
in part for any purpose whatsoever until a certificate shall have been issued
by the Building Officer stating that the building and use of land complies with
all the building and health laws and ordinances having jurisdiction thereover
and with the provisions of this title. No change of use shall be made in any
building or part thereof now or hereafter erected or structurally altered that
is not permitted by the provisions of this title. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or lawful use of any existing
building, except as may be necessary for safety of life and property.
Certificates of occupancy shall be applied for not later than ten (10) days
after the erection or alteration of such buildings have been completed. A
record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the Office of the Building
Officer, and copies shall be furnished on request to any persons having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected. A fee of five dollars
($5.00) shall be charged for each certificate or copy thereof. (Ord. 190, 3-19-
1973)
9-11-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of a variation is to relieve a particular hardship
or practical difficulty that the regulations of this title may impose upon a
property owner because of special or peculiar characteristics of the property
that make compliance with this title difficult or impossible.
   B.   Standards: The Board of Appeals may recommend the approval only of the
specific types of variations listed in subsection C of this section, and only
when the Board of Appeals shall have made written findings of fact, based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that the following
standards are satisfied:
      1.   The property owner would suffer a demonstrable particular hardship
or practical difficulty as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the
strict letter of the regulations of this title were carried out.
      2.   The requested variation is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this title.
The Board of Appeals shall not find that the above standards have been
satisfied unless it shall find that all of the following facts have been
established by the evidence:
         a.   The requested variation will not be materially detrimental to the
use, enjoyment or property values of adjoining or nearby properties; (Ord. 06-
2-5, 2-21-2006)
         b.   The requested variation will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare, including the ecology of the Village, which is to be protected
pursuant to the Village's Comprehensive Plan, the Riverwoods tree and woodland
protection ordinance; (Ord. 06-2-5, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
         c.   The plight of the property owner is due to conditions peculiar to
the property arising from its particular physical surroundings, shape,
woodlands, tree coverage, wetlands or other topographical conditions; (Ord. 06-
2-5, 2-21-2006)
         d.   In the absence of the variation, the owner's removal or
overcoming of the conditions peculiar to the property which impose the
particular hardship or practical difficulty, if such action were possible,
would be detrimental to promoting the goals set forth in the Village's
Comprehensive Plan and the purposes of the Riverwoods tree and woodland
protection ordinance; (Ord. 06-2-5, 2-21-2006; amd. Ord. 18-03-05, 3-6-2018)
         e.   The conditions upon which the specific petition for variation is
based would not be applicable generally to other property within the same
zoning district;
         f.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property; and
         g.   The requested variation is limited to the minimum change
necessary to alleviate the particular hardship or practical difficulty which
affects the property.
   C.   Authorized Variations: The Village Board shall have the authority to
grant a variation only of the following regulations of this title:
      1.   The yard and setback requirements of any district.
      2.   The use of a lot in a residential district for a single-family
dwelling that otherwise would be prohibited solely because of the insufficient
area of the lot. (Ord. 06-2-5, 2-21-2006)
9-11-7: APPEALS:
An appeal may be taken to the board of appeals by any person, or by any officer
of the village aggrieved by a decision of the zoning officer or the building
officer of the village. Notice of appeal must be given within fifteen (15) days
of the decision of such officer. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-11-8: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no
such amendment shall be made without a public hearing before the Plan
Commission, which shall report its findings and recommendations to the Village
Board, except as otherwise stated herein.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the Village
Board, by the Plan Commission, or by any resident of, or owner of property in
the Village.
   C.   Processing: Before the holding of public hearings by the Plan
Commission on any amendment introduced to the Village Board, such amendment
shall be forwarded by the Village Board to the Zoning Officer with a request
for recommendations relative thereto by both the Plan Commission and the Zoning
Officer. Upon receipt of such proposed amendment, the Zoning Officer shall
transmit a copy of same to the Plan Commission, which shall make its
recommendations relative thereto and shall forward same through the Zoning
Officer to the Village Board. The Zoning Officer, in transmitting the
recommendations of the Plan Commission to the Village Board, shall forward
therewith either an indication of his concurrence with such recommendations or,
in the event of disagreement with same, his own separate recommendations. (Ord.
190, 3-19-1973)
9-11-9: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of a comprehensive zoning
ordinance is based upon the division of the Village into districts, within any
one of which the use of land and buildings and the bulk and locations of
buildings or structures as related to the land are essentially uniform. It is
recognized however, that there are special uses which, because of their unique
character, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts without consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon
neighboring lands and upon the public need for the particular use of the
particular location. Such special uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly related
utilities or uses traditionally affected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character by such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Authorization: Special uses shall be authorized by the Village Board;
provided, that no application for a special use shall be acted upon by the
Village Board until after:
      1.   A written report is prepared and forwarded to the Village Board by
the Plan Commission in the manner prescribed herein for amendments to this
Title.
      2.   A public hearing is scheduled, and notice posted, and thereafter
held by the Plan Commission, and its findings and recommendations are reported
to the Village Board.
   C.   Application: Any application for special use shall be filed and
processed in the manner prescribed for applications for amendments, and shall
be of such form, accompanied by such information as shall be established from
time to time, by the Plan Commission. The Zoning Officer shall process such
applications in the manner prescribed for amendments to this Title.
   D.   Standards: No special use shall be granted by the Village Board unless
the special use:
      1.   Is deemed beneficial for the public convenience at that location.
      2.   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety, morals and welfare and interest will be protected. (Ord. 190,
3-19-1973)
      3.   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973; amd. Ord. 269,
11-21-1977)
   E.   Conditions: The Plan Commission may recommend and the Village Board may
provide such conditions and restrictions upon the construction, location and
operation of a special use as may be deemed to promote the general objectives
of this Title and to minimize injury to the value of property in the
neighborhood. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-11-10: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATIONS FOR AMENDMENTS, SPECIAL USES OR
VARIATIONS:
   A.   Expenses; Fees: Any application for an amendment, special use or
variation filed by, or on behalf of the owner or owners of the property
affected shall be submitted in quadruplicate and shall be accompanied by a fee
of two hundred dollars ($200.00), to be deposited with the village clerk, and
said fee shall be applied to the general village fund. In addition, the
applicant shall pay to the village all expenses incurred by the village in
connection with the processing and procedures followed pursuant to said
application, including attorney fees. (Per correspondence dated 2-24-1993)
   B.   Signs: In addition to all other notices required by law, the applicant
for public hearing shall, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date
before the public hearing post a readable sign(s) on the adjacent roadway(s).
Said signs must be removed no later than ten (10) days after the completion of
the final public hearing.
The signs required by this subsection B shall contain the current zoning action
requested, date, time and place where said hearing shall be held, a statement
that further information can be obtained from the petitioner who shall be
identified on the signs and the village clerk, and the telephone number of the
village and that of the petitioner. The words "NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING" must
appear at the top of the sign using letters four inches (4") or more in height.
The letters for the date and time of the hearing shall also be four inches (4")
or more in height. Letters shall be black on a white background. The signs
shall meet all other requirements set forth by the village. All costs
associated with the hearing signs are to be borne by the petitioner. The signs
shall measure approximately sixty inches (60") in height and forty inches (40")
in width. The sign shall be placed approximately ten feet (10') from the right
of way line of the street abutting the front yard. (Ord. 98-2-3, 2-3-1998)
   C.   Written Notification: In all applications for a special use, variation,
or waiver requiring notice in the manner of special uses, the petitioners shall
notify, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or hand
delivery, all property owners within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the
boundaries of the subject property, inclusive of streets and rights of way (or
such larger radius as would be needed to ensure that not less than 2 adjoining
properties in any direction receive notice), not less than fifteen (15) days or
more than thirty (30) days in advance of the scheduled public hearing date. The
mailing of notice, addressed to the name and address on the most recent county
real estate tax records, shall be deemed a satisfaction of this notice
requirement. The failure of delivery of such notice, however, shall not
invalidate the public hearing. The required written mail notice shall contain,
at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   The street address, legal description or detailed location
description of the property, if any, that is the subject of the application;
      2.   A statement describing the relief requested;
      3.   The name and address of the applicant;
      4.   The name and address of the legal owner, and beneficial owner if
any, of the property;
      5.   The meeting date, time and location; and
      6.   A statement giving instructions as to how further information can be
obtained from the petitioner.
Subsequent notices (whether by publication, mailing or otherwise) are not
required for continuances of a hearing, if any. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
   D.   Compliance: The applicant shall furnish at the time of hearing a
written statement certifying that he has complied with the requirements of this
section. No hearing shall commence until said certification has been filed with
the hearing body. (Ord. 98-2-3, 2-3-1998; amd. Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11-11: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any building, structure or premises in
violation of the terms of this title. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any
provision of this title shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 190, 3-19-1973)
9-11-12: RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The unique and substantially different character of
residential planned unit developments require their administrative processing
as a "special use" in this title. Residential planned unit developments are
more complex and of a different character than other special uses, requiring
the establishment herein of specific and additional procedures, standards and
exceptions to govern the recommendations of the village board. The purpose of
the residential planned unit development is to encourage and allow more
creative and imaginative design for land developments than is possible under
conventional district zoning regulations. The residential planned unit
development also provides for more efficient use of the land, and thus results
in more economical land development. Preservation of natural site qualities,
better amenities, more open space, and a high quality project are the normal
results of the planned unit development process.
The following objectives may be obtained through the use of the residential
planned unit development procedure:
      1.   To permit a greater choice in types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this title.
      2.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities.
      3.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, landscape design,
building forms and building relationships with a possible mixing of different
uses in an innovative design.
      4.   To enhance the appearance of neighborhoods through the provision of
underground utilities, and the preservation of natural vegetation, topographic
and geological features and environmentally appropriate features.
      5.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and the preservation of subsurface water.
      6.   To create a method for the preservation of common open space for the
continuous use and enjoyment of the residents and users of the development.
      7.   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreational
facilities, schools and other public and private facilities.
      8.   To promote the more efficient use of the land resulting in more
economic networks of utilities, circulation and other facilities.
      9.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of architectural,
natural and/or historic landmarks.
      10.   To encourage land use which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare.
   B.   Minimum Area: A minimum site of one hundred twenty five (125) acres
shall be required for all residential planned unit developments.
   C.   Uses Allowed: The uses which may be permitted under a residential
planned unit development include those listed as permanent uses or special uses
in the underlying district(s).
   D.   Density: The density of a residential planned unit development shall
not exceed the amount or number of dwelling units allowed under the
requirements of the underlying zoning district. Except, density bonuses may be
granted for the presence of exceptional design features in a Residential
Planned Unit Development. The eligible design features are:
      1.   Adjacent Major Roads: Where the development is abutting one or more
of the following major roads: Lake-Cook Road, Milwaukee Road or Saunders Road
(south of Deerfield Road), an increase of up to forty percent (40%).
      2.   Adjacent Permanent Open Space: Where the development is adjacent
directly to permanently reserved open areas of green space in contiguous tracts
exceeding five hundred (500) aggregate acres, an increase up to twenty five
percent (25%) of the base residential density may be granted.
      3.   Excellence in Site Planning: Where the project site plan exhibits
exceptional adherence to the purposes and objectives of this Chapter, an
increase of up to fifty percent (50%) of the base residential density may be
granted. In addition to the standards found in Section
10-9-8 of this Chapter, the following standards shall be used to measure site
plans for excellence:
         a.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site shall
be incorporated into the development wherever possible.
         b.   The site shall not be so overcrowded as to cause unbalanced
relationships of building to open space. Additional landscaped areas beyond the
minimum required shall be encouraged, preferably exhibiting continuity
throughout the development.
         c.   Open space areas shall not be unduly isolated from one another by
unrelated obstructions such as buildings and paved vehicular areas, but rather,
shall be linked by open space corridors of reasonable width.
         d.   Buildings shall be sited in an orderly fashion in sympathy with
the natural features of the site. Excessively long unbroken building facades
shall be avoided.
         e.   The floor plans of residential units shall have proper
orientation, access and view to adjacent private and public open space.
         f.   Through traffic shall be discouraged and the intrusion of
automobiles into the privacy of residential environments shall be minimized
while maintaining the convenience of access between the units and parking
areas.
         g.   Adequate building setbacks, open spaces and landscaped buffers
shall be provided around the perimeter of the property.
      4.   Neighborhood Facilities: When an appropriate and adequate
neighborhood facility, such as a swimming pool, tennis courts or gymnasium/
health club, is constructed and made available to the residents of the
development an increase of up to ten percent (10%) in the base residential
density may be granted.
      5.   Public Facilities: Where an appropriate and adequate public facility
or facilities, such as a library, community center, day care facility, park,
school, fire station, utilities or storm water management system serving the
community as a whole, or a part thereof beyond the subject site, is (are)
constructed in a manner acceptable to the suitable operating agency, an
increase of up to twenty five percent (25%) in the base residential density may
be granted. Where only the land for such a facility is dedicated to the public,
an increase of up to fifteen percent (15%) in the base residential density may
be granted.
Bonuses may be added together if more than one is present. However, the maximum
permitted residential bonus shall be 1.0 times the maximum number of legal,
standard lots that can be subdivided on the property pursuant to the underlying
zoning district as calculated by multiplying 1.0 times the gross square feet of
the property, less rights of way currently utilized for state or county roads
and less five percent (5%) of the remaining gross area for local collector
roads, divided by the minimum lot size permitted in the zoning district. The
density bonuses granted herein are discretionary on the part of the Village.
Bonuses less than the maximum for the design features specified above may be
granted.
   E.   Modifications:
      1.   Except as noted below, the yard, lot area, lot width, lot shape, lot
coverage, height and dwelling size requirements and the limits on combinations
of principal structures and uses may be modified under a Residential Planned
Unit Development, subject to the standards set forth in subsection G.
      2.   The required yards along the periphery of the Residential Planned
Unit Development shall be at least equal in width or depth to those of the
directly adjacent zoning district(s), not counting districts removed by the
presence of an intervening publicly dedicated street right of way.
      3.   Requirements regarding any improvements covered under the Riverwoods
Subdivision Ordinance, including sidewalks, streets, curbs, gutters, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water lighting, landscaping, parking and retention/
detention facilities shall be modified only as specifically provided for in the
special use ordinance authorizing the Residential Planned Unit Development.
   F.   Procedures: A Residential Planned Unit Development shall be reviewed as
a "special use" in accordance with the procedures and standards of this
Section, and shall be processed in three stages as set forth below. Additional
requirements regarding the processing of applications, including public hearing
procedures and the requirements for the recording of plats shall be set forth
in various administrative procedure documents, as amended from time to time.
Fees shall be set by the Village Board, and a list of such shall be kept on
file in the office of the Village Clerk.
      1.   The Applicant: The application for a RPUD shall be either all of the
owners of record of the property which comprises the RPUD or the contract
purchaser, with consent of all owners, provided:
         a.   That the application shall be submitted in the name of the owners
of record, and
         b.   That the party petitioning for the RPUD shall disclose his
interest in the property, such as an equitable interest via a purchase contract
for all or a portion of the property in question.
      2.   Pre-Application Conference:
         a.   A request for a pre-application conference shall be made in
writing to the Village. At least two (2) weeks prior to the conference, the
applicant shall provide written or graphic information as to the location, size
and uses in the proposed development and a list of all requested modifications
to the Subdivision Code and Zoning Ordinance. Prior to the conference, a
Technical Committee selected by the Mayor and approved by the Board of
Trustees, will review the proposal for its compatibility with the Comprehensive
Plan and the general planning policies and precedents of the Village.
         b.   At the conference, the Technical Committee will inform the
applicant of the results of the preliminary review and of the information,
materials and documentation that must be submitted for a formal application.
         c.   Within two (2) weeks after the conference, the Technical
Committee will submit a written report to the Board of Trustees who will review
the report and either direct the applicant to proceed with his formal
application or refer it back to the Technical Committee for further study and
action.
         d.   A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) must be paid to the
Village by the applicant at the time of the initial pre- application
conference.
      3.   Preliminary Site Plan:
         a.   Upon completion of the pre-application procedure, the applicant
may then make formal application to the Village Board requesting a special use
permit for a planned unit development on forms provided by the Village, and
including copies of a preliminary site plan containing the information required
in subsection
9-11-12H. This preliminary site plan shall be the subject of a public hearing
before the Plan Commission, as regulated in Section
9-11-9, Special Uses.
         b.   The Village Clerk shall forward one copy of the Preliminary Site
Plan and special use permit documents to each of the following persons within
five (5) working days of receipt thereof from the applicant: Village President
and Trustees, all members of the Plan Commission, the Village Engineer, the
Village Planner and the Village Attorney. The balance of the copies of the
documents shall be held on file by the Village Clerk for use by other public
officials as may be required.
         c.   The Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the filing,
conduct a public hearing on the special use permit applicant in accordance with
applicable statutes.
         d.   Within a reasonable amount of time, usually within forty five
(45) days after the adjournment of the public hearing, the Plan Commission
shall submit in writing its finding of facts and recommendations to the Village
Board and the applicant, based on the standards set forth in subsection
9-11-12G.
         e.   The Board of Trustees shall approve, approve with conditions and
modifications or reject the Preliminary Site Plan within a reasonable amount of
time, usually within sixty (60) days after its next regular meeting following
the receipt of the written recommendation of the Plan Commission.
            (1)   If the Preliminary Site Plan is not approved, the Village
Board may state in writing the reasons for the decision and such writing, if
prepared, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and a copy shall be sent to
the applicant.
            (2)   If the Preliminary Site Plan is approved or approved with
conditions and modifications, the Village Board shall authorize the applicant
to submit a Final Development Plan for the Planned Unit Development.
      4.   Final Development Plan:
         a.   Within one year following the approval of the Preliminary Site
Plan, the applicant shall file with the Village a Final Development Plan for at
least thirty three percent (33%) of the subject site containing, in final form,
the information required in the Preliminary Site Plan and additional
information as required in subsection
9-11-12I. Within three (3) years following the approval of the Preliminary Site
Plan, the applicant shall have filed with the Village a Final Development Plan
for all portions of the subject site.
         b.   The Plan Commission shall review each Final Development Plan with
regard to its conformance to the approved Preliminary Site Plan and to the
Final Development Plan requirements, and shall submit its report and
recommendations to the Village Board, usually within forty five (45) days.
         c.   The Village Board, after receipt of the report and
recommendations of the Plan Commission shall review each Final Development
Plan, and if it is determined to be in substantial conformance with the
approved Preliminary Site Plan and in conformance with the Final Development
Plan requirements, will authorize by Ordinance the issuance of a special use
permit.
If any Final Development Plan is held to be not in substantial conformance with
the Preliminary Site Plan or in conformance with the Final Development Plan
requirements, the Village Board shall inform the applicant of the specific
areas found deficient. The applicant may request from the Village Board an
extension of time to bring each Final Development Plan into conformance and to
complete the requirements, or may request a new public hearing under the
procedures established for approval of a Preliminary Site Plan.
         d.   Once the special use permit is issued, the Village Clerk shall
amend the official zoning map of the Village to show the approved underlying
zoning district, the number of the ordinance approving the special use permit.
   G.   Standards: Modifications in conventional zoning and subdivision
regulations are privileges and will be considered by the Village Board only in
direct response to the accrual of tangible benefits from the Residential
Planned Unit Development to the Village or the neighborhood in which it would
be located. These benefits shall be in the form of exceptional amenities;
outstanding environmental, landscape, architectural or site design; or the
conservation of special man-made or natural features of the site. In reviewing
an application for a Residential Planned Unit Development, the Village Board
will be required to make certain findings based on the standards below:
      1.   Required Findings: No applicant for a Residential Planned Unit
Development shall be approved unless all of the following findings are made
about the proposal:
         a.   Comprehensive Plan: It shall conform with the Comprehensive Plan
and the general planning policies and precedents of the Village, particularly
with reference to the following:
            (1)   Land use policies.
            (2)   Land use intensity.
            (3)   Housing goals.
            (4)   Traffic impact and parking.
            (5)   Impact on schools, public utilities and facilities.
            (6)   The character of the Village and the specific neighborhood.
            (7)   The conservation and enhancement of the tax base and economic
well-being of the Village.
         b.   Permitted Uses: Each of the proposed uses is a permitted or
special use in the district or districts in which the Residential Planned Unit
Development would be located.
         c.   Public Welfare: It shall be so designed, located and proposed to
be operated and maintained that the public health, safety and welfare will not
be endangered or detrimentally affected.
         d.   Impact on Other Property: It shall not substantially lessen or
impede the suitability for permitted use and development of, or be injurious to
the use and enjoyment of, or substantially diminish or impair the value of, or
be incompatible with, other property in the immediate vicinity.
         e.   Impact on Public Facilities and Resources: It shall not create an
adverse impact on municipal facilities, parks and recreation, schools, fire and
police protection, or the resources to support them.
         f.   Infrastructure: It shall have or make provision for adequate
utilities, drainage and other necessary facilities.
         g.   Parking and Traffic: It shall have or make adequate provision for
parking and ingress and egress and be so designed as to minimize traffic
congestion and hazards in the public streets.
         h.   Adequate Buffering: It shall have adequate site area, which area
may be greater than the minimum in the district in which the proposed site is
located, and other buffering features to protect uses within the development
and on surrounding properties.
         i.   Performance: There shall be reasonable assurance that if
authorized, it will be completed according to schedule and adequately
maintained.
      2.   Modification Standards: In addition to the findings required above,
the following standards shall be utilized by the Village in considering
applications.
         a.   Integrated Design: A Residential Planned Unit Development shall
be laid out and developed as a unit in accordance with an integrated overall
design. This design shall provide for safe, efficient, convenient and
harmonious grouping of structures, uses and facilities, and for appropriate
relation of space inside and outside buildings to intended uses and structural
features.
         b.   Beneficial Common Open Space: Any common open space in the
development shall be integrated into the overall design. Such spaces shall have
a direct functional or visual relationship to the main buildings and not be of
isolated or leftover character.
         c.   Functional and Mechanical Features: Exposed storage areas, trash
and garbage retainers, exposed machinery installation, service areas, truck
loading areas, utility buildings and structures, and similar accessory areas
and structures shall be accounted for in the design of the project and made as
unobtrusive as possible. They shall be subject to such setbacks, special
planting or other screening methods as shall reasonably be required to prevent
their being incongruous with the existing or contemplated environment and the
surrounding properties.
         d.   Visual and Acoustical Privacy: The development shall provide
reasonable visual and acoustical privacy for each dwelling unit. Fences,
insulations, walks, barriers and landscaping shall be used as appropriate for
the protection and aesthetic enhancement of property and the privacy of its
occupants, screening of objectional views or uses and reduction of noises.
         e.   Ownership Plan: The development may consist of conventionally
subdivided lots to be sold, unsubdivided single ownership, separate condominium
ownership of structures, or other ownership methods, provided that the
ownership plan ensures the continued maintenance of the properties and of the
various amenities and conservation and design features of the Residential
Planned Unit Development as a whole.
         f.   Energy Efficient Design: A Residential Planned Unit Development
shall be designed with consideration given to various methods of site design
and building location, architectural design of individual structures and
landscaping design capable of reducing energy consumption within the
development. Design features or facilities which utilize solar or wind energy,
or which effectively reduce consumption or use of water, motor vehicles'
nonrenewable energy sources or sewage treatment facilities will be encouraged
to the extent to which they conform with the other objectives of this Title.
         g.   Landscape Conservation and Visual Enhancement: The landscape in a
Residential Planned Unit Development shall be conserved and enhanced, insofar
as practical, by minimizing tree and soil removal, and the conservation of
special landscape features such as streams, ponds, groves and land forms. The
addition or use of trees, shrubs, flowers, fountains, ponds, special paving
materials, benches and seating areas, special lighting fixtures and other
amenities will be encouraged to the extent of their appropriateness and
usefulness to the development and the likelihood of their continued
maintenance.
         h.   Drives, Parking and Circulation: Principal vehicular access shall
be from major streets, and access points shall be designed to encourage smooth
traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to vehicular
or pedestrian traffic. With respect to vehicular and pedestrian circulation,
including walkways, interior drives and parking, special attention shall be
given to location and number of access points, general interior circulation,
separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, adequate provision for service
by emergency vehicles and arrangement of parking areas that are safe and
convenient, and insofar as practicable, do not detract from the design of
proposed buildings and structures and the neighboring properties.
         i.   Relationship to Public Facilities and Utilities: The development
shall be so designed as to have access to such facilities and utilities in the
same degree as would development under existing zoning, and shall be so
located, designed and scaled that access of public services is equivalent to,
and net costs for such services is not greater than, access and net costs for
public services for development as permitted under existing zoning.
         j.   Surface Water Drainage: Special attention shall be given to
proper site surface drainage so that removal of surface waters will not
adversely affect neighboring properties or the public storm drainage system.
Surface water in all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it
will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   H.   Preliminary Site Plan: The following items constitute the minimum
requirements for the contents of a Preliminary Site Plan, unless waived by the
Village Board. The applicant should feel free to supplement the list with
whatever materials deemed appropriate to illustrate compliance with the
regulations and intent of this section.
Maps which shall be included as part of the application shall be drawn at a
scale of one hundred feet to one inch (100'=1") or, if the area of the site is
more than two hundred (200) acres, two hundred feet to one inch (200'=1"). All
maps shall be dated and include a scale and north point.
      1.   A legal description of the site.
      2.   A boundary line survey of the site prepared and certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing the dimensions of the property's boundaries
and all existing rights of way adjacent to the property.
      3.   Existing and proposed topography of the land with contours shown at
intervals no greater than two feet (2'). Topographic data shall refer to the
U.S.G.S. North American Datum--Mean Sea Level Elevation.
      4.   Existing and proposed landscape features including significant tree
groupings, isolated preservable trees six inches (6") or more in diameter at
one foot (1') above ground level, scenic views and other natural features such
as lakes, ponds, waterways, wetlands, floodplains, etc.
      5.   Existing zoning and land uses on and adjacent to the site.
      6.   Village, school district and park district boundary lines on or
adjacent to the site.
      7.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
building heights, number of stories, gross floor areas, floor area ratios and
entrances.
      8.   All proposed uses including statistical tabulation of the acreage
amounts of all uses, the number, size and the type of dwelling units in all
structures, and the dwelling unit density.
      9.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed streets, curb
cuts, aisles, bicycle paths and walkways, the number and location of all
parking spaces and loading areas and the names of all streets. If the exact use
of the site is not known at the time of a site plan submittal, parking and
loading requirements shall be calculated for the general use having the
greatest parking and loading requirements.
      10.   All areas to be dedicated as common open space, designated for
easements, and all sites to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for parks,
playgrounds, school sites, public buildings and similar public and quasi-public
uses, together with the proposed plan for the permanent maintenance of such
common open space areas.
      11.   A utility concept plan, including the location of all existing
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water lines on the site and on property
immediately adjacent to the site. Similar information shall be provided for
gas, electric, telephone and cable television utilities. The utility concept
plan shall be accompanied by a statement from the Village Engineer attesting to
the capability of existing systems to service the proposed development.
      12.   A storm water drainage plan, identifying portions of the site in
the flood plain or in flood plain fringe areas, the existing and proposed flow
and storm drainage, and the location of drainage ditches, culverts, standing
water and proposed detention/retention facilities.
      13.   A plan for wetland delineation, preservation, enhancement or
mitigation.
      14.   Soil problem areas based on a soil survey of the site including a
report from the Soil Conservation Service. Additional soil information may be
requested by the Plan Commission and/or the Village Engineer.
      15.   Location, height and material for all screening walls and fences,
the location and direction of proposed lighting facilities and the location and
dimensions of each outdoor trash storage area.
      16.   A detailed listing of all requested modifications to zoning and
subdivision requirements, and the reasons why such modifications are deemed to
be in the public interest.
      17.   Other information requested by the Plan Commission or the Village
Board necessary to reasonably clarify the proposal and its impact or economic
feasibility. Such information may include but not be limited to any of the
following:
         a.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the Residential Planned Unit Development
and proposing any special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation
devices needed to ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through
and around the Residential Planned Unit Development or any phase of it.
         b.   Tax and school impact study detailing the impact the Residential
Planned Unit Development will have on all taxing bodies. In addition, the
expected number of students to be generated by any residential portion of the
Residential Planned Unit Development shall also be quantified, and estimates
made, as to the projected revenues and expenditures by the Village attributable
to the development.
         c.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height,
size, location, quantities and variety of plant materials.
         d.   An analysis of the marketability of proposed sale or rental
properties or of the demand for proposed services or uses.
   I.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Contents: Each Final Development Plan shall include the following:
         a.   All of the information required for the approved Preliminary Site
Plan, updated and in final form.
         b.   A Preliminary Subdivision Plat or, at the applicant's option, a
Final Subdivision Plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all
requirements of the Riverwoods Subdivision Control Ordinance, to the extent
that compliance with the subdivision regulation of the Village shall be
required by the Village Board of Trustees.
         c.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space.
         d.   Certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication of
land and recording of the document.
         e.   A copy of the formal agreement with a public agency or private
association for the ownership and maintenance of the common open space and
drainageways.
         f.   A restrictive covenant in a form acceptable to the Village
Attorney limiting development of, and construction upon, the tract as a whole
to such development and construction as shall comply with the Final Development
Plan and the special use permit granted by the Village Board, which document
shall include a provision granting the Village a right to enforce the same.
         g.   Final Landscape Plan for all rights of way, common areas and
conservation easements on builder lots, indicating the height, size, location,
quantity and variety of all plant materials, and a suitable process for
approval of landscape plans for dedicated conservation easements on custom
lots.
         For purposes of this ordinance the following definitions apply:
            BUILDER LOTS: All lots which are controlled by the developer or
home builder and for which the developer/or home builder will be responsible
for coordinated construction and landscaping.
            CUSTOM LOTS: All lots which are controlled by individual private
owners, on which homes and landscaping will be designed and constructed to suit
the "custom" desires of the individual owner.
         h.   Final engineering drawings including the final utility plan.
         i.   Final architectural design development drawings, including plans,
elevations and sections for all major structures on builder lots, and a
suitable process for approval of architectural drawings for all major
structures on custom lots.
         j.   Proof of all applicable approvals from State and County officials
or from other agencies outside the Village having jurisdiction.
         k.   A schedule for construction of all phases of the development,
including landscaping, utilities and site amenities indicating when each phase
can be expected to begin and end.
      2.   Permitted Changes: Minor changes from the approved Preliminary Site
Plan may be allowed in the Final Development Plan without a public hearing,
provided such changes are determined to be minor by the Village Board after
review and recommendation by the Plan Commission. A change shall not be
considered minor if it includes any of the following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development.
         b.   An increase by more than one percent (1%) in the overall coverage
of structures.
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use.
         d.   A relocation of any street, curb cut or intersection of more than
ten feet (10') in a manner which would increase the problems of traffic
circulation or public utilities, or which would cause a significant negative
impact upon the buffer or open space scheme.
         e.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space.
         f.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading spaces.
         g.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
         h.   A change in the arrangement or location of principal structures
or uses by more than ten feet (10').
         i.   A reduction in total storm water detention capacity or an
increase in the design rate of storm water discharge from the site.
Changes in addition to or in excess of the limits described above shall be
considered major changes and require submission of a new application which
shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required for the original
application.
   J.   Conditions of Development: After the approval of the Final Development
Plan, the use of land and construction, modification or alteration of any
buildings or structures within the Residential Planned Unit Development will be
governed by the approved Final Development Plan and all applicable Village
ordinances not specifically waived in the ordinance granting a special use for
the Residential Planned Unit Development. In addition, the following conditions
apply to the construction of a Residential Planned Unit Development:
      1.   Construction in accordance with the Final Development Plan shall
commence within one year. Failure to commence within that period shall, unless
an extension has been granted by the Board of Trustees according to subsection
9-11-12J2 below, automatically render null and void the final plan approval of
the Residential Planned Unit Development Plan, all prior plan approvals upon
which final plan approval depends, including all permits based on such
approvals, and the special use permit for the Residential Planned Unit
Development.
      2.   The Village Board may extend the time limit for the commencement of
construction as follows:
         a.   If a delay, or anticipated delay, is caused by governmental
action without fault on the part of the developer, an extension may be granted
for a period not longer than the period of the governmental delay.
         b.   For good cause shown, an extension may be granted for such period
of time as the Village Board deems appropriate but not exceeding twelve (12)
months exclusive of extensions authorized under subsection
9-11-12J2a, above.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for any construction in a Residential
Planned Unit Development, nor shall any use of the properties commence until
the developer posts with the Village a sum in cash, negotiable securities
surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit running to the Village in an amount
sufficient to cover the full cost, including engineering, legal and inspection
fees and costs, plus twenty five percent (25%) of such total, to ensure the
satisfactory installation of all streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water lighting, landscaping, parking, retention/detention
areas and all other public improvements. The cost of the improvements shall be
based on confirmed estimates approved by the Village Engineer and all
guarantees except cash and negotiable securities shall be reviewed by the
Village Attorney for conformance to Village ordinances. If a surety bond is
submitted, it shall have good and sufficient surety thereon and shall not be
accepted until approved by the President and Board of Trustees. If the
Residential Planned Unit Development is to be constructed and developed in
stages or phases, the deposit of cash or securities or the bond posted, shall
be in an amount based upon the confirmed estimated cost of installation of
improvements in the respective stage or phase as approved by the Village
Engineer.
      4.   No changes shall be made in the approved Final Development Plan,
except with the approval of the Village Board according to the same limitations
and procedure set forth in subsection
9-11-12I2. Any approved changes must be recorded as amendments to the recorded
copy of the Final Development Plan. If the approved change is related to any of
the approved plans or drawings, amended plans or drawings must be filed with
the Village and recorded. No changes may be made in the Final Development Plan
unless they are required for the continued successful functioning of the
Residential Planned Unit Development, or unless they are required by changes in
conditions that have occurred since the Final Development Plan was approved or
by changes in the development policy in the Village.
      5.   The Village Board may at any time request written reports on the
progress and development of the proposed Residential Planned Unit Development.
If the Village Board is satisfied that the permittee has abandoned the
development of the Residential Planned Unit Development or failed to follow the
Final Development Plan, it shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of
considering the revocation of all permits issued and action taken herein.
Written notice of said hearing shall be sent by certified mail (return receipt)
to the permittee at the business address stated in the application for the
Residential Planned Unit Development. If the Village Board finds that the
permittee has abandoned the development of the proposed Residential Planned
Unit Development or failed to follow the Final Development Plan, it may then
revoke all permits issued and action taken herein.
      6.   Any building or structure within the Residential Planned Unit
Development that is totally or substantially destroyed may be reconstructed
only in compliance with the Final Development Plan unless an amendment to the
Final Development Plan is approved following the procedures required for the
original application.
   K.   Conditions and Guarantees: Prior to granting a special use permit for a
Residential Planned Unit Development, the Plan Commission may recommend, and
the Village Board stipulate by Ordinance, such conditions and restrictions upon
the establishment, location, construction, maintenance and operation of the
Residential Planned unit development as deemed necessary for the protection and
requirements specified herein or as may be, from time to time, required. In all
cases in which planned unit developments are approved, the village board shall
require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the
conditions stipulated in connection therewith are being and will be complied
with. (Ord. 93-1-3, 1-19-1993)
   L.   Expansion: If any land which has not been previously annexed to any
municipality is contiguous to an existing residential planned unit development,
then such land, upon its annexation to the village, shall be eligible to be
classified as a part of the existing residential planned unit development.
Except as provided in this section the procedures and standards for requesting
classification as a part of an existing residential planned unit development
shall be the same procedures and standards as govern any original request to be
classified as a residential planned unit development. In particular, the
required findings about the residential planned unit development to be made as
provided in subsections G1 and G2 of this section shall be made by the village
board about the proposal to classify the annexed land as part of the
residential planned unit development. All other provisions of this section
shall apply to such proposal, except as modified or supplemented in accordance
with the following guidelines:
      1.   The annexed land shall abut Saunders Road (south of Deerfield Road)
and be contiguous to an existing residential planned unit development but shall
not otherwise be required to satisfy a minimum area requirement under
subsection B of this section;
      2.   The applicant submitting its application for the annexed land to be
classified as part of the existing residential planned unit development shall
be deemed to have filed an application to amend the special use previously
granted for the existing residential planned unit development;
      3.   The density bonus which may be granted above the base residential
density, due to the fact that the annexed land abuts Saunders Road (south of
Deerfield Road), may be increased up to eighty five percent (85%) above the
base residential density under subsection D of this section; and the maximum
permitted residential bonus shall be 1.35 times the maximum number of legal,
standard lots that can be subdivided on the annexed land pursuant to the
underlying zoning district when calculated under subsection D of this section,
but the density bonus increase for abutting Saunders Road and the maximum
permitted residential bonus described above shall apply solely to the annexed
land and shall not otherwise change or modify in any respect the density
bonuses and maximum residential density previously permitted to the existing
residential planned unit development; and
      4.   The declaration of covenants, conditions, restrictions and easements
or instruments of like import which establish a governing body, such as a
homeowners' association, to supervise shared maintenance, repair and
replacement of common open spaces or facilities and to enforce architectural
and use restrictions in an existing residential planned unit development shall
be extended against the annexed land as follows:
         a.   The description of the property subjected to the terms of the
original declaration shall be amended to include the description of the annexed
land, so that the owners from time to time of the annexed land shall become
members of the association, granted the privileges and benefits of such
membership and required to assume the duties and liabilities of such
membership, at such time and with such changes as may be agreed upon by the
village board; or
         b.   An amendment to the aforementioned original declaration shall be
recorded against the annexed land as a covenant running with the land and
containing in substance all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth
in the original declaration for the existing residential planned unit
development, with such changes as may be agreed upon by the village board.
      5.   The village board, upon receipt of the report of the plan commission
shall review the final development plan of the applicant, and if it is
determined to be in substantial conformance with the approved preliminary site
plan and in conformance with the final development plan requirements, will
authorize by ordinance an amendment to the special use permit for the existing
residential planned unit development. (Ord. 00-8-15, 8-1-2000)
9-11-13: SOCIAL SERVICE CENTERS:
   A.   A special use may be granted for a social service center when listed as
a special use in the applicable district regulations. A "social service center"
means a nonresidential facility in which social, cultural, athletic and
educational and similar community based services (as opposed to home based
services) are provided by the trained staff of a private membership
organization to members who are persons with developmental disabilities, which
disabilities are expected to continue indefinitely, constitute a substantial
handicap and are primarily attributable to intellectual disability or other
condition which results in similar impairment. A social service center shall
not be operated for the purpose of providing alcohol or substance abuse
treatment services or rehabilitation services to juvenile delinquents or
persons convicted of criminal offenses or confined under the terms of any
parole order. A social service center shall not be operated to provide services
to persons who are determined to have "severe autism", "severe mental illness"
involving mental disorders other than mental retardation or "severe or profound
mental retardation", as such terms are defined in the home-based support
services law for mentally disabled adults, 405 Illinois Compiled Statutes 80/2-
1 et seq., and the family assistance law for mentally disabled children, 405
Illinois Compiled Statutes 80/3-1 et seq. Before granting a special use for a
social service center, the board of trustees shall find that the proposed
development satisfies the criteria set forth below: (Ord. 98-12-41, 12-15-1998;
amd. Ord. 15-02-04, 2-3-2015)
      1.   The site has frontage on, and is accessed from, one of the following
major roads: Lake Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue, or the portion of Saunders Road
which is south of Deerfield Road.
      2.   The site area for the social service center is at least three and
one-half (31/2) acres. The site is to be consolidated as a single lot of record
under the village's subdivision control ordinance. The orientation of the
buildings on the site minimize the visual impact on any adjacent residential
areas. All building setbacks, at a minimum, must conform to the requirements of
the R-1 42,000 square feet single-family residential district.
      3.   For purposes of this section, the terms "floor area ratio" or "FAR"
and "impervious surface ratio" or "ISR" shall have the same meaning as given in
subsection
9-5C-3C of this title; and the term "building height" shall have the same
meaning as given in section
9-2-3 of this title. The FAR, ISR and building height restrictions applicable
to a special use for a social service center are:
 
FAR             0.14
ISR             0.31
Building height 35 feet
 
      4.   The natural topographic and landscape features of the site are
preserved and incorporated into the development, wherever possible.
      5.   Landscaped buffers with shrubs and trees are provided around the
perimeter of the property, preferably exhibiting continuity throughout the
development, to provide a high level of screening and minimize the visual
impact on any adjacent properties, particularly residential areas.
      6.   Stormwater detention facilities are designed as a visual amenity for
the project, wherever possible.
      7.   The building facade design minimizes the total building bulk, and
the exterior elevations of the buildings require the use of higher grade
finishes, primarily masonry, granite, marble or stone walls, and pitched or
mansard roofs where feasible and demonstrate an architecturally harmonious
development throughout the entire site which harmonizes well with any adjacent
residential areas. No vinyl siding shall be permitted. (Ord. 98-12-41, 12-15-
1998)
      8.   If located in or adjoining a residential district, lighting
standards on the property shall conform to the requirements of the residential
outdoor lighting ordinance (title 5, chapter 6 of this code). (Ord. 15-02-04,
2-3-2015)
      9.   Perimeter fencing and pedestrian access substantially conform to the
recommendation of the plan commission.
   B.   A special use application for a social service center in the R-1 42,000
square feet single-family residential district shall be made to the plan
commission, in accordance with sections
9-11-9 and
9-11-10 of this title. The application shall include a preliminary site plan
containing the information required by the subdivision control ordinance. The
application shall also contain any other information requested by the plan
commission or the village board necessary to reasonably clarify the proposal
and its impact or economic feasibility. Such information may include, but not
be limited to, any of the following:
      1.   A traffic study by a qualified traffic engineer indicating the
volume of traffic to be generated by the social service center and proposing
any special engineering design features and/or traffic regulation devices
needed to ensure the proper safety of traffic circulation to, through and
around the site.
      2.   A conceptual landscaping planting plan, indicating the height, size,
location, quantities and variety of plant materials.
      3.   An analysis of the marketability of the demand for proposed services
or uses.
      4.   Architectural drawings, elevations and renderings depicting the
design features of the development and a specifications list for materials and
finishes. (Ord. 98-12-41, 12-15-1998)
In addition, the applicant for a social service center shall have the burden of
showing that the proposed development complies with the definitions,
regulations and standards contained in sections
10-1-5,
10-1-9, subsections
10-2-3-6H and I, sections
10-5-3,
10-5-4,
10-5-5,
10-5-6,
10-5-7,
10-5-8,
10-5-9,
10-5-12,
10-5-13,
10-5-15,
10-5-16 and
10-5-17 of this code, unless and to the extent such provisions are waived by
the building officer and zoning officer. All references contained in the
foregoing sections of the subdivision control ordinance to the "subdivision"
shall be deemed references to the proposed social service center; references to
the "subdivider" shall be deemed references to the applicant for the special
use. For a social service center located in the R-1 42,000 square feet single-
family residential district, the board of trustees may modify: 1) the standards
otherwise required in such district for off street parking and loading,
buildings per lot, natural areas and landscaping, access, permitted signage,
accessory buildings, and building and parking setbacks, and 2) the FAR and ISR
standards set forth in subsection A3 of this section. Such modifications, if
approved in the ordinance granting the special use for a social service center,
may enhance or reduce the foregoing standards as deemed necessary by the board
in order that the special use will satisfy the requirements of subsection
9-11-9D of this chapter. To the extent the regulations of the R-1 42,000 square
feet single-family residential district are modified by the ordinance
authorizing a special use for a social service center, the applicant shall not
be required to obtain a variance from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 98-12-
41, 12-15-1998; amd. Ord. 15-02-04, 2-3-2015)
   C.   The plan commission shall forward its report and recommendations to the
village board of trustees. The village board, after receipt of the report and
recommendations of the plan commission shall review the special use application
and supporting materials and make its findings with respect to the criteria set
forth in subsection A of this section. The village board may condition granting
the special use upon compliance with the specific elements of "project
documents" to be referenced in the ordinance approving the special use,
including a final site plan, landscaping plan, stormwater management plan,
elevation drawings and similar project documents and upon completion of the
proposed improvements within a specified period of time. Failure to commence
within that time period, unless an extension has previously been granted by the
village board, shall entitle the village board to adopt an ordinance repealing
the special use permit. If the village board votes to approve the special use,
the village clerk shall amend the official zoning map of the village to show
the approved underlying zoning district and the number of the ordinance
approving the special use; after such approval, the use of land and
construction, modification or alteration of any buildings or structures thereon
will be governed by the controlling project documents and all applicable
village ordinances not specifically waived in the ordinance approving the
special use. (Ord. 98-12-41, 12-15-1998)
9-11-14: TRANSITIONAL RESIDENCES:
Before granting a special use for a transitional residence, the board of
trustees shall find that the proposed special use satisfies the standards set
forth below (in addition to the general standards for special uses set forth in
Section
9-11-9 of this title):
   A.   Required Approvals. No transitional residence shall be established
without the prior licensing, certification or other approval of every public
agency charged with the regulation or supervision of any facet of the activity
of the proposed facility. Every application for a special permit for a
transitional residence shall set forth each agency that must approve the
establishment or operation of the facility and shall be accompanied by a formal
acknowledgment of approval from each such agency, when required. In the event
any such approval has been delayed, the application shall set forth the status
of each such application, and shall state any facts known to the applicant that
might have contributed to the delay of any required approval that has not been
obtained as of the time of the filing of the application for a special permit.
Any transitional residence not required to be licensed or certified by the
State of Illinois shall comply with the licensing and background investigation
requirements of Title 89 Illinois Administrative Code 385 et al. (Illinois
Administrative Code Title 89, Chapter 111, Subchapter D, Part 385 Background
Checks).
   B.   Code and Parking Compliance. Overnight parking (when not in an enclosed
garage) must be located outside of any required yard and effectively screened
from neighbors during all seasons. Noise and light glare to neighboring
properties must be minimized when locating parking areas.
   C.   Supervision. A transitional residence shall provide qualified and
experienced supervisory personnel in sufficient numbers and during sufficient
and appropriate hours of the day and night to meet all standards of any agency
responsible for the licensing or regulation of the transitional residence and
such additional service as may be required by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Availability of Services. Every transitional residence shall be
provided with, or have ready access to, services necessary and appropriate to
the needs of its residents for active and passive recreation; medical care;
educational, cultural and religious activities; consumer goods and services;
and public transportation.
   E.   Financial Stability. No special permit for a transitional residence
shall be granted unless the applicant therefor shall establish to the
satisfaction of the board of trustees that there exists a reasonably certain
source of continuous and sufficient funds to provide for the operation and
maintenance of such facility in accordance with the representations of the
application and the various standards applicable to such facility by reason of
this title and other laws and regulations. (Ord. 21-04-07, 4-20-2021)
ARTICLE A. ACCOMMODATIONS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
SECTION:
9-11A-1: Purpose
9-11A-2: Periodic Review Of Provisions
9-11A-3: Authorization
9-11A-4: Eligibility
9-11A-5: Application
9-11A-6: Standards
9-11A-7: Conditions
9-11A-8: Term
9-11A-9: Enforcement
9-11A-10: Severability
9-11A-11: Conflicts
9-11A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish procedures for applications,
submitted by or on behalf of persons or groups of persons with disabilities,
seeking waivers or exceptions to the requirements of this title when barriers
to housing in the village arise from a disability itself and the requested
waiver or exception is a necessary and reasonable accommodation to lowering the
housing barriers for such persons as mandated by the 1988 amendments to the
federal fair housing act, 42 USC section 3601 et seq. (FHAA), and the judicial
decisions interpreting the same and binding upon the village. (Ord. 15-08-14,
8-4-2015)
9-11A-2: PERIODIC REVIEW OF PROVISIONS:
The zoning official shall review this title from time to time to identify
provisions which, though applied equally to persons with and without
disabilities, if left unmodified, would restrict persons with disabilities, by
reason of their disability, from using and enjoying housing opportunities in
the village and shall forward a report to the village board once a year. (Ord.
15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-3: AUTHORIZATION:
Waivers or exceptions to the requirements of this title pursuant to this
article shall be authorized by the village board by ordinance; provided, that
no application for a waiver or exception shall be acted upon by the village
board until after:
   A.   A written report is prepared and forwarded to the village board by the
plan commission in the manner prescribed herein for special uses under this
title.
   B.   A public hearing is scheduled, and notice given, and thereafter held by
the plan commission, and its findings and recommendations are reported to the
village board. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-4: ELIGIBILITY:
Waivers or exceptions pursuant to this article are authorized and may be
granted solely in those instances when the granting thereof would serve to
lower barriers to housing for persons with disabilities, as defined in the
FHAA. Without limiting the foregoing, the right to apply for waivers or
exceptions under the provisions of this article does not apply in the case of
individuals who claim to be disabled solely on the basis of having been
adjudicated a juvenile delinquent, having a criminal record, or being a sex
offender or to persons involved in the current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of the controlled substances
act [21 USC section 802]), persons who have been convicted of the manufacture
or sale of controlled substances or persons with or without disabilities who
present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. (Ord. 15-08-14,
8-4-2015)
9-11A-5: APPLICATION:
Any application for waiver or exception from the requirements of this title
shall be filed and processed in the manner prescribed for applications for
special uses, and shall be of such form, accompanied by such information as
shall be established from time to time, by the plan commission. The zoning
officer shall process such applications in the manner prescribed for special
uses under this title. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-6: STANDARDS:
No waiver or exception from the requirements of this title ("accommodation")
shall be made pursuant to this article unless such accommodation is necessary
and reasonable.
   A.   A necessary accommodation is one that:
      1.   Is deemed necessary in order for the person or persons with
disabilities to compete equally with nondisabled individuals in obtaining
housing offered in the village.
      2.   Would provide a direct amelioration of the disability's effect for
the housing in question and, but for the application of the zoning provision or
rule, the person or persons with disabilities would have been able to access
such housing.
      3.   Avoids a zoning provision or rule, which if left unmodified, would
hurt the person or persons with disabilities by reason of their disability
rather than by virtue of what they have in common with other people.
   B.   A reasonable accommodation is one that:
      1.   Is both efficacious and proportional to the cost to implement it.
      2.   Does not fundamentally alter the nature and purposes of this title
as summarized in section
9-2-2 of this title.
      3.   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety, morals and welfare and interest will be protected.
      4.   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-7: CONDITIONS:
The plan commission may recommend and the village board may provide in the
ordinance approving the accommodation such conditions and restrictions upon the
construction, location and operation of the property in question as may be
deemed to promote the general objectives of this title and to minimize injury
to the value of property in the neighborhood, while preserving the intended
benefit of the accommodation. Such conditions may include, without limiting the
foregoing, an affidavit to be submitted to the village stating that the
accommodation continues to be necessary. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-8: TERM:
The village board may repeal an ordinance granting an accommodation under this
article if the property in question is no longer occupied by a person or group
of persons with the disability or disabilities for which the accommodation was
first granted. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If the village determines that an owner has failed to comply with the
conditions stated in any ordinance granting an accommodation, the village shall
provide written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall
have a period of thirty (30) days from the date of notification to bring the
property into compliance.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day's continued violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   C.   In the event such property is not brought into compliance with this
article within the specified time period or if the village finds that such
property constitutes a nuisance, the village may pursue any and all available
legal remedies to cause the abatement of the nuisance at the property owner's
expense. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this article
is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
9-11A-11: CONFLICTS:
This article supersedes all chapters or parts of ordinances adopted prior
hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord.
15-08-14, 8-4-2015)
CHAPTER 12
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: General Requirements
9-12-4: Solar Energy Systems
9-12-5: Wind Energy Systems
9-12-6: Geothermal Energy Systems
9-12-7: Enforcement
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   To allow for the safe, effective and efficient development of renewable
energy systems in the village.
   B.   To facilitate energy production from wind and solar energy sources.
   C.   To minimize the adverse impacts upon neighboring properties arising
from the installation and operation of renewable energy systems.
   D.   To preserve the aesthetics of the zoning districts in the interest of
protecting property values, public health, and welfare. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-3-2012)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
dBA: The sound pressure in A-weighted decibels, being the unit of measure used
to express the magnitude of sound pressure and sound intensity using a
frequency response curve which resembles the normal frequency hearing curve for
most people.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM: A heating and cooling system for a building that
pumps circulating fluid through underground piping to transfer heat from or to
the building and the earth. The system utilizes the relatively constant
temperature of the soil or groundwater beneath the earth's surface to provide
heating and cooling to buildings. For purposes of this chapter, the definition
of geothermal energy system means only those systems in which the underground
piping forms a closed loop system.
NET METERING: An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a renewable
energy system is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A term denoting a solar energy system, wind energy
system, geothermal energy system or all of the foregoing.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system consisting of photovoltaic panels and associated
equipment to convert sunlight into electricity or thermal collectors to absorb
and store the sun's thermal energy and which is intended primarily to reduce on
site consumption of utility power. A solar energy system may be integrated as
an architectural component of a building or mounted on a building as an
attached fixture or attached to a freestanding pole. Roof shingles made of
photovoltaic material are an example of an integrated system.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED: A solar energy system that is attached
to the roof, wall, or other elevated surface of a building by means of a post,
tripod, bracket or other mounting equipment.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, FREESTANDING: A solar energy system that is attached to a
freestanding pole or otherwise ground mounted.
TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance as measured from the average grade level at
the base of a freestanding wind energy system to the uppermost vertical
extension of a rotor blade or the maximum height reached by any part of the
freestanding wind energy system.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A system consisting of a wind turbine, a tower or mounting
equipment, and associated control or conversion electronics which converts wind
energy into electricity and which is intended primarily to reduce on site
consumption of utility power.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED: A wind energy system in which the wind
turbine is attached directly or indirectly to the roof, wall, or other elevated
surface of a building by means of a post, tripod, bracket or other mounting
equipment.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, FREESTANDING: A wind energy system in which the wind
turbine is attached to a freestanding monopole or lattice tower. (Ord. 12-4-5,
4-3-2012)
9-12-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to specific requirements elsewhere in this chapter for renewable
energy systems, the following general requirements shall govern the use and
operation of such systems:
   A.   Accessory Uses: Renewable energy systems, subject to the provisions of
this chapter, are permitted as accessory uses to the principal use of a site in
all zoning districts, except that when any special use has been authorized on a
property, renewable energy systems shall only be allowed on such property by
amendment to the special use permit. In any ordinance amending a special use
permit, the village board may modify the maximum height restrictions set forth
in this chapter.
   B.   On Site Consumption: Energy produced through the renewable energy
system shall be utilized primarily to reduce on site electrical power
consumption, but it is permissible to sell excess energy to the local electric
utility through the use of net metering as allowed by law.
   C.   Utility Provider Notification: No wind energy system or solar energy
system shall be installed until written evidence has been provided at the time
a building permit is requested that the electric utility company has been
notified of the customer's intent to install an interconnected renewable energy
system. Off grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   D.   Building Permits: A building permit is required prior to the
installation, relocation or modification of any renewable energy system. A soil
analysis is recommended and may be required by the director of community
services as a part of a building permit application if appropriate to confirm
that the soils meet the minimum bearing capacity assumed by the structural
design of any freestanding renewable energy system. Fees for review of the
building permit application may include such additional review charges as
established by the village to reimburse the village for the fees of consultants
engaged by the village.
   E.   Noninterference With Drainage And Protected Woodlands: The installation
of freestanding renewable energy systems shall not be approved unless the
proposed installation complies with all other pertinent provisions of the
village code, including provisions intended to promote drainage of stormwater
and the protection of trees and woodlands. The director of community services
may require the owner to submit a scaled site plan, topographical survey, and
delineation of wetlands or protected woodlands to determine such compliance.
   F.   Effect Of Approvals: Any property owner installing a renewable energy
system under the provisions of this chapter assumes the risk of future
building, landscaping or improvements which may occur on adjacent property. No
approval granted by the village shall impose any duty on adjacent owners to
refrain from making lawful improvements that may diminish the function of a
renewable energy system.
   G.   Duty To Maintain: The owner of a renewable energy system shall ensure
that it is installed and maintained in compliance with applicable building,
property management and safety codes in effect in the village to ensure
structural and technical integrity of such facilities.
   H.   Structures; Number Of Accessory Buildings: Aboveground equipment
installed for any renewable energy system shall be considered a structure;
however, freestanding wind energy systems or solar energy systems shall not
count toward the maximum number of detached accessory buildings allowed on a
residential lot set forth in subsection
9-2-6-6D of this title.
   I.   Screening: Mechanical or landscape screening is not required for
renewable energy systems.
   J.   Wiring: All outdoor electrical wiring associated with a solar energy
system shall be underground or contained where feasible within a raceway that
complements the building materials of the principal structure. All outdoor
electrical wiring associated with a wind energy system, other than the wires
necessary to connect the wind generator to the tower wiring, the tower wiring
to the disconnect junction box, and the grounding wires shall be located
underground. Underground wiring shall be routed to minimize damage to tree root
systems.
   K.   Lighting: Renewable energy systems shall not be artificially
illuminated.
   L.   Signs: Only signs used for identification of the manufacturer or
installer or to provide warning information shall be attached to any renewable
energy system. Such signs shall have a total sign area of not more than twenty
four (24) square inches. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-3-2012)
9-12-4: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Building Mounted Solar Energy Systems: Approval of building mounted
solar energy systems shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Maximum Height: Building mounted solar energy systems shall not
extend higher than five feet (5') above the surface of the roof or above the
peak of the roof, measured vertically.
      2.   Principal And Accessory Buildings: Building mounted solar energy
systems may be installed on permitted principal and accessory buildings.
      3.   Orientation: Solar panels may be installed at the same angle as the
slope of the roof or mounted at an angle that maximizes receipt of solar
radiation, subject to the maximum height restriction.
      4.   Horizontal Projection: Solar panels shall not extend or overhang
more than four feet (4') beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which
the system is mounted, as measured horizontally from the roof edge or facade on
which the panel is mounted; provided, that panels shall not project
horizontally beyond the perimeter of the building if the panels would then
violate the required yards or increase the amount of a legal nonconformance.
   B.   Freestanding Solar Energy Systems: Approval of freestanding solar
energy systems shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Maximum Height: The total height of a freestanding solar energy
system shall not exceed fifteen feet (15'), measured from the average grade at
the base of the pole to the highest edge of the system.
      2.   Setback: Freestanding solar energy systems shall not be located in
any required yards nor located over any public utility easement.
      3.   Coverage: The surface area of the photovoltaic panels in a
freestanding solar energy system on any lot shall be limited to one hundred
(100) square feet for each one-half (1/2) acre of land. The surface area of
such panels shall count toward the maximum square footage for accessory
buildings allowed on such lot. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-3-2012)
9-12-5: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   General Restrictions: All wind energy systems shall comply with the
following provisions:
      1.   Maximum Number: The maximum number of wind energy systems on any lot
shall be two (2). On any lot, if there are two (2) systems, both may be
building mounted wind energy systems or freestanding systems or there may be
one of each kind of system; however, any lot of less than one acre in size may
have only one freestanding wind energy system.
      2.   Safety Shutoff: All wind energy systems shall be equipped with
manual and/or automatic controls to limit rotation of blades to a speed within
the manufacturer's design limits.
      3.   Sound: Sound levels for any wind energy system, as measured at the
property line, shall not exceed fifty (50) dBA, except during such short term
events and utility outages or a severe windstorm. The village may, at its
discretion, require a professional sound measurement by a third party expert at
the expense of the property owner, to confirm performance of the wind energy
system, in accordance with the performance standards, as measured at the
nearest property line.
      4.   Color: Finishes of wind energy systems shall be nonreflective,
neutral and monochromatic in color and shall minimize visual disruption to the
surrounding area. Ground equipment, such as cabinets and associated facilities,
shall be factory finished to match or complement the color of other structures
on the lot.
   B.   Building Mounted Wind Energy Systems: Approval of building mounted wind
energy systems shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Maximum Height: The total height of a building mounted wind energy
system shall not exceed ten feet (10') above the peak roof height or ten feet
(10') above the maximum permitted height of the zoning district, whichever is
less.
      2.   Diameter: The maximum diameter of a building mounted wind energy
system shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   Mounting: Building mounted wind energy systems may be affixed to the
roof deck of a flat roof or to the ridge or slope of a pitched roof, set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the edge or eave of the roof, but shall not be
affixed to the parapet or chimney of any structure. A structural analysis of
the existing building is recommended and may be required by the director of
community services as part of the building permit process to confirm that the
structure is capable of supporting the minimum loads assumed by the structural
design of the turbine and mounting system.
   C.   Freestanding Wind Energy Systems: Approval of freestanding wind energy
systems shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Maximum Height: The tower height of a freestanding wind energy
system shall not exceed forty five feet (45').
      2.   Setback: Freestanding wind energy systems, including guywires and
related equipment, shall not be located in any required yards or located over
any public utility easement, nor shall the base of the tower or pole of a
freestanding wind energy system be located closer to any property line or
overhead utility than a distance equal to 1.3 times the tower height.
      3.   Minimum Clearance: In the case of a horizontal axis wind turbine,
the minimum clearance between the lowest tip of the rotor or blade and the
ground shall be fifteen feet (15'), and in the case of a vertical axis wind
turbine, the minimum clearance between the lowest tip of the rotor or blade and
the ground shall be ten feet (10').
      4.   Base Of Tower: All towers shall be embedded in an approved concrete
foundation. An owner may be required to supply a copy of appropriate
manufacturer's specifications and warranties, engineer's calculations and
drawings and all such technical documents appropriate to substantiate
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the requirements for a
building permit.
      5.   Unauthorized Access: Freestanding wind energy systems and all
components thereof shall be protected against unauthorized access by the
public. No climbing ladder, foot pegs or rungs shall be permanently attached
below a height of twelve feet (12') above grade. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-3-2012)
9-12-6: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Geothermal well sites (including any belowground structures) shall not
be considered permissible obstructions in the front, side or rear yards in any
zoning district and shall observe the setback requirements of the respective
zoning district. Equipment, piping and devices shall not be located in any
street easement or right of way.
   B.   Before installing, relocating or modifying the well sites or
belowground piping of a geothermal energy system, the property owner shall
obtain a site development permit in accordance with title 8 of this code and
all necessary Lake County permits. Geothermal systems utilizing wells and
buried piping that do not form a "closed loop" system are prohibited in the
village. Geothermal energy systems may be installed as horizontal systems with
piping buried in shallow trenches (approximately 3 to 6 feet in depth) or as
vertical systems, with piping buried in vertical holes. To minimize the risk of
groundwater contamination, the heat transfer fluid used in vertical geothermal
energy systems shall conform to such rules as the village from time to time may
adopt. All underground piping shall be installed using directional drilling
methods. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-3-2012)
9-12-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If the village determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter, the village shall
provide written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall
have a period of thirty (30) days from the date of notification to either
restore the renewable energy system to operation or remove the system.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day's continued violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   C.   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this chapter within the specified time period or if the village
finds that such system constitutes a nuisance, the village may pursue any and
all available legal remedies to remove or cause the removal of such system or
the abatement of the nuisance at the property owner's expense. (Ord. 12-4-5, 4-
3-2012)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-6: Administration Of Title
10-1-6-1: Board Of Trustees
10-1-6-2: Plan Commission
10-1-6-3: Zoning Board Of Appeals
10-1-6-4: Village Engineer
10-1-6-5: Village Clerk
10-1-6-6: Village Treasurer
10-1-6-7: Village Attorney
10-1-7: General Considerations And Interpretations
10-1-8: Variations And Exceptions
10-1-9: Meetings, Meeting Fees
10-1-10: Record Of Plats
10-1-11: Violations; Penalty
10-1-12: Applicability
10-1-13: Graphic Illustrations
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
CONTROL ORDINANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This Title is adopted under authority vested in the Village under the
provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 . (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS.
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
These regulations are established to:
   A.   Ensure the proper legal description and proper monumenting of
subdivided land.
   B.   Provide for the installation of utilities, roadways, and other
improvements essential to servicing the subdivided land.
   C.   Provide for the dedication and acceptance of land required for schools,
parks and other public uses.
   D.   Ensure sound, harmonious subdivision development and community growth,
and to safeguard the interests of the homeowner, the subdivider, the investor,
and the Village.
   E.   Provide permanent access to the locality and to the Village.
   F.   Limit and control the pollution of the environment that can be caused
by inadequate or incomplete urban development.
   G.   Provide common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the Village and the subdivider. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
The Village shall have jurisdiction over and control of all subdivision and
platting of land located within the corporate limits of Village and in the
territory outside of and not distant more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
from the Riverwoods corporate limits, and not included in any other city,
village or incorporated town, and shall have authority to approve the vacation
of subdivisions and streets and alleys within the stated limits of
jurisdiction. When the boundaries of another municipality are located within
three (3) miles or less from the corporate limits, the jurisdiction of these
provisions shall extend to a point midway between, except that this may be
altered by an intermunicipal agreement. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Title, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them herein, except when the context otherwise
requires and except where another definition set forth in another section of
this Title and applicable to that section or a designated part thereof is
applicable:
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily for vehicular traffic along the side or
in the rear of properties which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting properties.
BLOCK: A parcel of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way shorelines of waterways, or
corporate boundary lines of the Village.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Riverwoods.
BORINGS, SOIL: Examination and analysis of the subsoil by drilling.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements of the Zoning Ordinance 1 .
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The composite of the functional
and geographic elements of the Official Plan of the Village and Environs 2  or
any segment thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts, text or reporting and
implementing ordinances.
CROSSWALK: A public right of way located across a block to provide pedestrian
access to adjacent streets.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one open end and being permanently terminated
by a vehicular turn-around.
DATUM PLANE: A reference point from which elevations are measured. The datum
plane is mean sea level as established by the United States geodetic survey
(USGS).
DENSITY GROSS: The ratio between the total number of dwelling units on a parcel
and the total area of the parcel.
DETENTION AREA: A reservoir designed to provide temporary storage of storm
water runoff.
DRAINAGE SWALE: A turf drainage ditch of shallow depth.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
GRADE: Slope expressed in percent.
GRADING: Excavating to fill or any combination thereof, and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
GROSS LAND AREA: The entire area of a development including lots, streets and
alleys, measured to the center line of any bounding streets.
IEPA: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
LOT: A single tract of land under unified ownership or control within a block,
either a lot of record or a zoning lot.
   Lot, Corner: A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersection
where the lot lines form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). A lot abutting a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if the intersecting tangents of the curve extended from the points
of the curve or from the intersections of the side lot lines with the arc of
the curve form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
   Lot, Flag: An irregular lot under single ownership or control which consists
of a stem which fronts on a public or private street, but the stem does not
meet the requirement for minimum frontage, and the main body of the lot which
does not front on a public or private street as normally required. The platting
of new flag lots is prohibited, except as a special use subject to Section
9-11-9 of the Zoning Title. In such cases, the area of the stem shall not count
toward the required minimum lot size.
   Lot, Frontage: The width of a lot measured along the lot line, front.
   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
   Lot Of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Lake County, Illinois.
   Lot, Through: A lot having frontage of two (2) parallel streets. On a
through lot only one street line shall be deemed a front line.
   Lot With Frontage: A lot of record which fronts on or abuts a public or
private street.
   Lot Without Frontage: A lot of record which does not front on or abut a
public or private street. The platting of new lots without frontage is
prohibited, except as a special use subject to Section
9-11-9 of the Zoning Title.
   Lot, Zoning: A single tract of land located within a single block which is
designated by the Municipality on the adopted Zoning Map, or which at the time
of filing an application for a building use permit is designated by its owner
or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control, and which meets all the requirements for the
proposed use. Once a tract land has been designated as a zoning lot, it may be
used only in the manner permitted for a lot of record, in the most restrictive
zoning district wherein any part of the tract of land is located.
OWNER: The individuals, firms, associations, syndicates, copartnerships,
corporations, trusts, or any other legal entities having sufficient proprietary
interest of record in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under the statutes of the State of Illinois
or under the codes and ordinances of the Village.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PLAN COMMISSION: The words "Plan Commission", as used herein, refer to the Plan
Commission of the Village of Riverwoods 1 .
PLAN, SKETCH: A general map or drawing on which the subdivider's design for the
subdivision of land is presented for discussion purposes prior to the
preparation of the preliminary plan.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A planned development is a parcel of land which is
developed as a unit under single ownership or control which includes two (2) or
more principal buildings and which may not completely conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawings and documents presented for final approval and
recording.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The drawings and documents presented for tentative approval.
STREET: Wherever the word "street" is used in this Title, it shall refer to the
width of the street right of way or easement, whether public or private, and
shall not be considered as the width of paving or other improvement on the
street right of way.
   Street, Accepted: A public street which has been accepted for maintenance by
the Village Board by resolution.
   Street, Minor: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
   Street, Primary: A street of considerable continuity which serves, or is
intended to serve, as a major traffic artery connecting various sections of the
Village.
   Street, Private: A private street or road owned by the adjoining landowner
or owned as a whole by all residents of said subdivision.
   Street, Public: Any major, secondary or minor street which is shown on the
subdivision plat and dedicated to public use.
   Street, Secondary: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to the
major street system, including the principal entrance streets of residential
development and streets for circulation within such development.
   Street Width: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or corporation who undertakes to divide a parcel of land
into smaller parts and is responsible for following the requirements of this
Title.
SUBDIVISION: A described tract of land which is to be, or has been, divided
into two (2) or more lots or parcels, any of which is less than five (5) acres,
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or
building development, including all streets, alleys, ways of public service
facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, or other public grounds, and
all the tracts, parcels, lots or blocks, and numbering of all such lots,
blocks, or parcels by progressive numbers, giving their precise dimensions. The
term "subdivision" includes resubdivision and where it is appropriate to the
context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided;
provided, however, that the following shall not be considered a subdivision and
shall be exempt from the requirements of this Title; provided, however, the
applicant bears the burden of proof as to the applicability of the claimed
exception:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   B.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as rights
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not involve
any new streets or easements of access;
   C.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   D.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   E.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
   F.   The first division of lots or parcels of land in single record
ownership into no more than two (2) parts and not involving any new streets or
easements of access; provided that the two (2) parts meet the requirements of
the applicable zoning regulations and all other ordinances of the Village and
provided that said subdivision shall be reviewed and approved by the Building
and Zoning Officer for compliance with said ordinances prior to recordation
and/or issuance of any building permits. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78; amd. Ord. 88-1-2,
1-19-88; Ord. 95-9-12, 9-19-95)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
10-1-6: ADMINISTRATION OF TITLE:
The following offices of the government of the Village are concerned with the
administration of this Title. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The Board of Trustees is vested with the following authority and
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: If the Plan Commission recommends approval of an
application for preliminary approval of a plat, the Board of Trustees shall
accept or reject said plat within thirty (30) days after its next regular
scheduled meeting following the action of the Plan Commission. Preliminary
approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
   B.   Final Plat: When a person submitting a plat of subdivision or
resubdivision for final approval has supplied all drawings, maps and other
documents required by the Municipal ordinances to be furnished in support
thereof, and if all such material meets all Municipal requirements, the Board
of Trustees shall approve the proposed plat within sixty (60) days from the
date of filing the last required document or other paper or within sixty (60)
days of filing application for final approval of the plat, whatever date is
later. The applicant and the Board of Trustees may mutually agree to extend the
sixty (60) day period.
   C.   Variations And Exceptions: Approve or disapprove of all variations and
exceptions recommended by the Plan Commission.
   D.   Amendments: Amendment of the regulations of this Title when found
necessary and desirable alter review by the Plan Commission.
   E.   Enforcement: Initiation of appropriate proceedings to enforce the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-2: PLAN COMMISSION:
The Plan Commission is vested with the following authority and responsibilities
in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Conduct sketch plan conference.
   B.   Receive and review preliminary plats referred to the Commission by the
Board of Trustees.
   C.   Forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals for review and recommendations
all preliminary plats which might require variations.
   D.   Forward to the Board of Trustees all preliminary plats with
recommendations. If the Plan Commission approves the preliminary plat, it so
indicates on the plat, and if it disapproves such plat, it shall furnish the
Board of Trustees and the applicant a written statement setting forth the
reason for disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which
the proposed plat fails to conform to this Title, the Official Map, and with
the intent of the Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   Receive all final plats and check their compliance with the preliminary
plats.
   F.   Forward to the Board of Trustees all final plats with recommendations.
(Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-3: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following authority and
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Receive from the Plan Commission for review all preliminary plats with
any noted variations.
   B.   Forward to the Plan Commission all preliminary plats with
recommendation concerning variations. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-4: VILLAGE ENGINEER:
The Village Engineer is vested with the following authority and
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Review all preliminary plats and supporting documentation to determine
compliance with the regulations contained herein, and provide such
certification as required.
   B.   Review the final plat to determine compliance with regulations
contained herein, and provide such certification as required.
   C.   Review the improvement plans, specifications and cost estimate to
determine compliance with regulations contained herein.
   D.   Inspect all improvements required by this Title both during
construction and after completion to ensure compliance with this Title and with
good construction practice, and provide such certification as required.
   E.   Forward to the Village Clerk a written statement of estimated charges
for review of the plat and supporting documentation as well as engineering fees
and inspection fees for inspection of subdivision improvements during the
course of construction, to be paid by the subdivider. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-5: VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk is vested with the following authority and responsibilities
in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Receive all applications, plats, fees, estimated review costs,
petitions, and exhibits for file and distribution in accordance with the
provisions of this Title.
   B.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Title, including
amendments thereto.
   C.   Provide subdivider with forms and check lists as described in this
Title. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-6: VILLAGE TREASURER:
The Village Treasurer is vested with the following authority and
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Receive, hold and release all securities and deposits required herein.
(Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-6-7: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
The Village Attorney is vested with the following authority and
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
   A.   Review all contracts, bonds, plats, covenants, and such other singular
documents as may be required herein, and provide such certification as
required.
   B.   Forward to the Village Clerk a written statement of estimated charges
for review of the plat and supporting documentation, to be paid by the
subdivider. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-7: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   No land within the Village or within the one and one-half (11/2) mile
jurisdiction of the Village shall be subdivided after the adoption of these
regulations, nor shall any street be laid out or any public improvement made to
the land, until the final plat of subdivision shall have been certified to and
approved by action of the Board of Trustees. This approval must be in writing
and placed on the original tracing of the final plat.
   B.   No lot within any such subdivision shall be offered for sale nor shall
any sale, contract for sale or option be made or given until such subdivision
plat shall have been properly reviewed by the Plan Commission and officially
approved by the Board of Trustees.
   C.   No public improvement such as water supply, storm water drainage,
paving or surfacing of streets and sidewalks, or utility improvements such as
gas, electric or telephone service shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or his agent, or by any public service corporation at
the request of such owner or his agent until the plat of subdivision and also
the plans for improvements thereto have been formally recommended by the Plan
Commission and approved by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   No site development permit or building permit shall be issued for the
alteration of land or construction of buildings or structures within a proposed
subdivision, before the final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the
Board of Trustees in accordance with the provisions of this Title, and filed
with the Recorder of Deeds of the County of Lake in Illinois.
   E.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds for purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of evading
this Title will not be permitted. All such described subdivision shall be
subject to all of the requirements and regulations contained in this Title.
   F.   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
administrative bodies referred to herein:
      1.   Minimum Standards Established: In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      2.   Higher Standards Govern: Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this Title upon the subdivision of land are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this Title or of any other applicable law, ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive and
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
      3.   Easements Or Covenants Not Abrogated: This Title is not intended to
abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreements; provided,
that where the regulations of this Title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or other private agreement, the requirements of this Title shall
govern.
      4.   Existing Subdivisions: No subdivision of land which was not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption of these regulations shall be made lawful
solely by reason of the adoption of these regulations, and to the extent that
said subdivision of land is in conflict in any manner with the requirements of
this Title, said subdivision of land remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 272, 3-
20-78)
      5.   Graphic Illustrations: The graphic illustrations labeled "Types of
Lots", Minimum Interior Lot Standards", and "Minimum Corner Lot Standards" and
the chart labeled "Minimum Lot Standards" appear at the end of this Chapter in
Section
10-1-13, are intended as summaries or depictions of the requirements set forth
in the text of this Title and shall be used in construing the meaning of the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 95-9-12, 9-19-95)
   G.   The subdivision shall comply with all applicable laws and statutes of
the United States and the State or any political division thereof. (Ord. 272,
3-20-78)
   H.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section, no conveyance of
property or adjustment of property lines by contiguous landowners shall be
permitted if one or both of the resulting lots shall become nonconforming with
respect to the Zoning Ordinance 1  or any other ordinance of the Village. The
division of contiguous lots or the conveyance of portions thereof, must be
approved by the Village Board. Prior to such approval, the owner and/or
purchaser shall submit a certified survey indicating that resulting lots are
conforming. No building permit may be issued for any lot or parcel which does
not conform with the provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 88-11-21, 11-15-88)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of the City Code.
10-1-8: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Hardships: Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships
or particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may
result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may consider
variations or exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be
done and the public interest secured; provided, that such variation or
exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
this Title. In those situations involving zoning variations, the Plan
Commission shall forward such considerations to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
review and recommendation after a public hearing thereon. In those situations
involving exceptions to the regulations of this Title, the Plan Commission may
recommend an exception of the application of the regulations of this Title
where there are particular difficulties or particular hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of these regulations, and may recommend to the
Board of Trustees that said Board of Trustees approve said plat of subdivision
in spite of failure to strictly comply with the strict letter of these
regulations, stating the reasons for said recommendation. Such recommendations
or exceptions shall be communicated in writing to the Board of Trustees giving
full particulars for the allowance of the exception. Approval of the exception
must be received from the Board of Trustees before the Plan Commission may give
approval of the preliminary plat.
   B.   Petition By The Subdivider: A petition for any such variation or
exception shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk by the subdivider
at the time the preliminary plat is filed for consideration by the Plan
Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and
all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. After initial review by the
Plan Commission, it shall, when appropriate, be forwarded to the Zoning Board
of Appeals for review and recommendation.
   C.   The Zoning Board Of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not
recommend zoning variations to the regulations of this Title unless it shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
that:
      1.   Public Welfare Protected: The granting of the variation will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other
property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      2.   Unique Conditions: The conditions upon which the request for a
variation is based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought
and are not applicable, generally, to other property.
      3.   Particular Physical Conditions: Because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the specific property
involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations was carried
out.
   D.   Conditions: In recommending variations, the Zoning Board of Appeals may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of this Title.
   E.   Recommendations: Such variations as may be recommended by the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be forwarded to the Board of Trustees in writing through
the Plan Commission. The Board of Trustees may approve only such variations or
exceptions which, in its opinion, do not adversely affect the adopted
Comprehensive Plan or the intent and purpose of this Title. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-9: MEETINGS, MEETING FEES:
All plans, plats and other material submitted as required herein shall be
considered at regularly scheduled meetings of the Plan Commission or the Board
of Trustees. Additional meetings and/or work sessions may be held if requested
by the subdivider, and approved by the Plan Commission and/or Board of
Trustees, provided that:
   A.   Said meetings and/or work sessions are publicly announced at the
regularly scheduled meetings.
   B.   The subdivider shall pay a fee to the Village Clerk for each meeting or
work session. The initial sketch plan conference meeting shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to be paid in cash, money order, certified check or cashier's
check made payable to "Village of Riverwoods" and given to the Village Clerk.
Each additional sketch plan conference meeting, preliminary plat meetings and
final plat meetings shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per meeting, payable as
indicated above.
   C.   The subdivider shall reimburse the Village for the cost of the Village
Attorney, Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village Planner, Secretary or
Court Reporter, if required to attend the meetings. Estimated costs shall be
obtained and fees shall be put in escrow until such payment is required. (Ord.
272, 3-20-78)
10-1-10: RECORD OF PLATS:
All plats of subdivision and other documents submitted and approved, as
provided in this Title, and recorded, shall be copied after recording by the
Village Attorney and be filed with the Village Clerk. The fee for recording the
plat shall be paid by the subdivider. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-11: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any provision of this Title shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, plus its court filing costs. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-1-12: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Section shall also apply to all planned developments
whether residential, commercial, or otherwise in nature, and to any and all
other developments whether a subdivision is required or not under the laws,
statutes, ordinances or regulations of the governmental body or agency
jurisdiction or control, and regardless of whether the same is labeled a
subdivision or not, it being the intent of this Section to apply to all types
of development, both within the Village and to areas lying within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 83-6-4, 6-20-
84)
10-1-13: GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATIONS:
   VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/801f1d805f61b60ca3117d539acdef79677f4e00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.gif]
MINIMUM LOT STANDARDS
Residential District 1-R R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-4
Residential District                1-R    R-1    R-1A   R-2    R-3     R-4
Minimum lot area, sq. ft.           42,000 42,000 60,000 80,000 200,000 43,560
Minimum frontage, interior lot, ft. 75     75     120    150    300     70
Minimum width at building line, ft. 105    -      -      -      -       -
Minimum frontage, corner lot, ft.   95     75     120    150    300     70
Minimum width at building line, ft. 125    -      -      -      -       -
Average lot width, ft.              -      150    150    150    150     150
Minimum front yard, ft.             50     50     55     60     100     50
Minimum side yard, interior, ft.    30     30     35     40     40      30
Minimum side yard, adjacent to      50     50     55     60     100     45
street, ft.
Minimum rear yard, ft.              40     40     45     50     100     40
(Ord. 95-9-12, 9-19-95)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Sketch Plan Conference
10-2-2: Preliminary Plat
10-2-2-1: Filing
10-2-2-2: Fees
10-2-2-3: Application
10-2-2-4: Form and Content
10-2-2-5: Supplementary Information
10-2-2-6: Additional Information 1
10-2-2-7: Action by Village Clerk
10-2-2-8: Action by Plan Commission
10-2-2-9: Action by Village Board
10-2-2-10: Qualifications of Approval
10-2-3: Final Plat
10-2-3-1: Filing
10-2-3-2: Acreage Fee
10-2-3-3: Conformance with Preliminary Plat
10-2-3-4: Filing Period
10-2-3-5: Form and Content
10-2-3-6: Supplemental Documents
10-2-3-7: Qualifications Governing Approval
10-2-3-8: Action by Village Clerk
10-2-3-9: Action by Plan Commission
10-2-3-10: Action by Board of Trustees
10-2-3-11: Escrow Deposit
10-2-3-12: Filing of Plats
 
Notes
1 1. Deleted per letter dated 2-24-93.
10-2-1: SKETCH PLAN CONFERENCE:
   A.   Application: Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any
proposed subdivision, the subdivider may make application to the Board of
Trustees through the Village Clerk to request a meeting with the Plan
Commission to consult with and determine conformity to the Comprehensive Plan,
Official Map, Zoning Ordinance and compliance with this and other applicable
Village ordinances. The subdivider shall file, with the Village Clerk, eleven
(11) copies of the following documents at least ten (10) days prior to a
regularly scheduled Plan Commission meeting, eight (8) copies to be distributed
to the Plan Commission, one to the Village Clerk noting in "Communications
Received", one to the Village Attorney, and one to the Village Engineer.
      1.   Written Notification: To be in the form of a letter of intent from
the subdivider to the Board of Trustees, establishing the subdivider's intent
to develop the land. The letter shall include the following information and
such other material as may be pertinent to the submission:
         a.   Legal description of property encompassing proposed subdivision.
         b.   Names and addresses of the owner(s), including the beneficial
owners under the terms of a land trust, owner of record and the subdivider. The
proof of ownership shall be in the form of a certified copy of a title
insurance policy or a tract search, supplied by a company in the business of
investigating land titles, no more than sixty (60) days old at the time of said
filing. In the event the title appears in the name of a land trust, the trustee
thereof shall certify as to identity each beneficiary of such land trust by
name and address and define his interest therein.
         c.   Land characteristics, existing covenants, location relative to
the existing corporate limits and existing zoning.
         d.   Description of proposed subdivision including number of lots,
typical lot size, gross density, price range and zoning.
      2.   Sketch Plan: A plan that will show, in sketch form, the proposed
layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to existing conditions.
The sketch plan may be a free-hand sketch made directly on a topographic map or
other appropriate medium.
      3.   Tentative Engineering Proposals: With regard to water supply, waste
water facilities, storm drainage and street improvements.
      4.   Sketch Plan Conference Fee: The subdivider shall pay a meeting fee
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the Village Clerk for the initial sketch
plan conference meeting. If additional meetings are required, the subdivider
shall pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each meeting to the Village
Clerk.
   B.   The Plan Commission will discuss the proposed subdivision with the
subdivider and so advise of any Village plan or projects which might affect the
proposed subdivision. The Plan Commission shall review the project with the
subdivider and shall advise the subdivider of the following:
      1.   Procedural steps for platting. (Preliminary plat check list)
      2.   Procedural steps for zoning, if required. (Zoning Ordinance)
      3.   Specific ordinances affecting proposed subdivision. (Zoning
Ordinance, Building Ordinance, Grading Ordinance, etc.)
      4.   Filing and review fees and bonding requirements.
      5.   Other taxing bodies having jurisdiction and the area of
jurisdiction.
The advice provided by the Plan Commission is for information only, and the
subdivider has the burden of assessing the effect of the information on the
proposed subdivision. No formal action shall be taken by the Plan Commission at
the completion of the sketch plan conference. The decision to proceed or
abandon the proposed subdivision rests solely with the subdivider.
10-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
10-2-2-1: FILING:
Following the sketch plan stage, the subdivider shall submit eighteen (18)
copies of an application in writing for the tentative approval of the
preliminary plat together with the preliminary plat, the supporting
documentation as specified herein or as required during the sketch plan
conference, the filing fee, the meeting fee, and the estimated review fees to
the Village Clerk.
10-2-2-2: FEES:
The fees required shall be paid in cash, by money order, certified or cashier's
check made payable to the "Village of Riverwoods" through the Village Clerk.
These fees shall be as follows:
   A.   Initial Filing Fee:
 
15 lots or less               $150.00
Each lot in excess of 15 lots 10.00
 
   B.   Meeting Fee: A meeting fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per meeting is
required.
   C.   Review Fees: The subdivider shall reimburse the Village for the cost of
the Village Attorney, Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village Planner,
Secretary or Court Reporter, or other persons hired as necessary, incurred in
the review of the preliminary plat and supporting documentation. Estimated
costs of the services required shall be obtained, which the subdivider will
then pay to the Village Clerk prior to the Plan Commission's review and
approval of the preliminary plat. These funds will be placed in an escrow
account by the Village Clerk. Actual costs shall be obtained prior to the
approval of the preliminary plat, and the amount shall be disbursed to the
Village. If a balance remains in the escrow account and the subdivider proceeds
to the final plat, the account shall be left open. If the preliminary plat is
not approved, the remaining funds may be returned to the subdivider.
10-2-2-3: APPLICATION:
The application shall be in the method shown in Form 1 (Chapter 6 of this
Title), eighteen (18) copies to be distributed as follows: Plan Commission,
eight (8); President and Board of Trustees, seven (7); Village Clerk noting in
"Communications Received", one; Village Attorney, one; Village Engineer, one.
The application and other documents shall be filed with the Clerk at least ten
(10) days prior to a regularly scheduled Plan Commission meeting to be
considered at that meeting.
10-2-2-4: FORM AND CONTENT:
The preliminary plat shall be legibly accurately drawn at a scale not smaller
than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"). The preliminary plat shall
contain at least the following information:
   A.   Proposed name of subdivision (not a duplication of any subdivision
heretofore recorded in the Village).
   B.   Legal description of property encompassing proposed subdivision.
   C.   Vicinity map at a scale of not smaller than two thousand feet to the
inch (2,000' = 1") showing existing subdivision, roads, section lines,
corporate limits, and existing utilities in the adjoining areas.
   D.   Names and addresses of the owner, owner of record (including the names
and addresses of all beneficiaries of any land trust, accompanied by a
certified copy of the trust agreement and all amendments thereto), the
subdivider, and designer who prepared the plan. The proof of ownership shall be
in the form of a certified copy of a title insurance policy or a tract search,
supplied by a company in the business of investigating land titles, no more
than sixty (60) days old at the time of said filing. In the event the title
appears in the name of a land trust, the trustee or a beneficiary thereof shall
identify each beneficiary of such land trust by name and address and define his
interest therein.
   E.   Date.
   F.   North point.
   G.   Boundary line of the total area proposed to be subdivided indicated by
solid heavy line and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
   H.   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted streets or
other public ways, utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces,
easements, section lines and Village boundary lines, within or adjacent to the
property. Location of buildings and structures or houses within the property.
   I.   Boundary lines of adjacent parcels of unsubdivided or subdivided land,
showing ownership where possible.
   J.   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent property.
   K.   Existing and proposed contours at one foot (1') intervals on USGS
datum.
   L.   Layout and widths of proposed streets with names and the layout and
widths of the crosswalkways and easements.
   M.   Lots intended to be dedicated for public use or set aside for use of
property owners in the subdivision and size thereof.
   N.   Lots showing all dimensions, approximate areas and numbered.
   O.   Building setbacks, showing dimensions.
   P.   Easements to be provided for any and all public utilities. Proper
continuity for the utilities from block to block shall be maintained.
   Q.   Existing sanitary sewers, storm sewers, septic system, drainage
channels, springs, wells (active or inactive), farm drain tiles, water mains,
culverts, or other known underground facilities on the parcel being considered
and on adjacent properties.
   R.   Location and description of all permanent buildings, wooded areas, and
significant topographic and natural features.
   S.   Approval Certificate: The following certificate shall be shown in the
lower right-hand corner of the preliminary plat:
   APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT
The preliminary plat of a subdivision shown hereon has received approval of the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Riverwoods, Illinois, and upon compliance
by the subdivider with requirements of qualifications governing the approval of
the preliminary plats and with other revisions and stipulations that may be
required, the Board of Trustees will receive the final plat for consideration
when submitted by the subdivider in such form and within such time as required
and approved by the Plan Commission.
The Board of Trustees of the Village or Riverwoods, Illinois.
By:                                                                           
Village President Date    Plan Commission Chairman Date
Village Attorney Date   Village Engineer Date
Attest:                        
Village Clerk Date
   T.   Check list signed indicating that all items necessary for review have
been submitted.
10-2-2-5: SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
In addition to the requirements set forth in the preceding Section, the
following supplemental information may be required by the Plan Commission.
   A.   Zoning Statement: A statement indicating whether any zoning changes,
variations or special uses will be required. If affirmative, the subdivider
shall list the changes, variations or special uses to be requested. The
subdivider shall submit a petition for such variation in writing to the Village
Clerk for distribution and for recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   B.   Boundary survey with angular and linear dimensions.
   C.   Annexation Statement: A statement that the proposed subdivision (where
contiguous) is or is not to be annexed to the Village.
   D.   Soil and Water Conservation District Report: Copies of the report
prepared by the Soil and Water Conservation District as required by Illinois
Statute.
   E.   Erosion Control Statement: A statement that the subdivider will provide
such temporary facilities during construction as are necessary or required to
prevent erosion or the siltation of watercourses, and that adequate measures
will be taken during construction for dust control. The subdivider shall also
agree to clean and restore streams, ditches or watercourses of any kind if
protective measures prove inadequate.
   F.   Proposed covenants and building restrictions.
   G.   Letters of review from all agencies that the subdivider is referred to
in the sketch plan conference.
   H.   Preliminary engineering reports and plans including but not limited to
the consideration of the following:
      1.   Water and waste water facilities, and public utilities.
      2.   Streets and sidewalks, if required.
      3.   Site grading and erosion and siltation control.
      4.   Storm sewers and a drainage plan for the storage and controlled
release of the storm water following a one hundred (100) year frequency storm.
   I.   Soils Report: A soils report, prepared by a professional soils
engineer, of sufficient scope to point out potential ground absorption, runoff,
flooding deficiencies, the presence of unstable soils or of soils of such low
bearing capacity as to constitute problems for conventional construction, or
the presence of subsurface rock that would affect the installation of
underground improvements on the provisions of above ground improvement. If, in
the opinion of the Village Engineer, additional soil investigations, boring or
other soil tests are necessary to determine the nature and extent of such
questionable material, the subdivider shall perform the needed investigations.
The Village Engineer and the Village shall have no liability for costs
connected with the test boring or interpretations of the results of work.
   J.   Demographic Study Requirements: If a school demographic study shall be
submitted, it shall include, but need not be limited to the following:
      1.   The number and types of dwelling units to be constructed, the
density of such dwelling units on the land, and an estimate of each type of
dwelling unit by the number of bedrooms.
      2.   Estimates of the number of children to be generated from the
different types of dwelling units based on general standards used by the school
district in which the subdivision is located.
      3.   Estimates of the number of children to be generated in each school
classification.
   K.   Traffic study, if required by the Plan Commission.
   L.   A letter of approval from the State or County Highway Department shall
be submitted if the project fronts on a County highway. (Per letter dated 2-24-
93)
10-2-2-6: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. Deleted Per letter dated 2-24-93.
10-2-2-7: ACTION BY VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk shall receive the filing fees and eighteen (18) copies of the
application and supporting documentation, date and distribute as follows: Plan
Commission, eight (8); President and Board of Trustees, seven (7); Village
Attorney, one; Village Engineer, one; one copy to be noted in "Communications
Received" and retained for Village files. The Village Clerk shall also inform
the subdivider of the date, time and place of the meeting at which the Plan
Commission will review the submission.
10-2-2-8: ACTION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
The Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove the application for preliminary
approval of a plat within ninety (90) days from the date of the application or
the filing by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by mutual consent. If
such plat is disapproved, then within said ninety (90) days the Plan Commission
shall furnish the applicant in writing a statement setting forth the reason for
disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed
plat fails to conform to the ordinances, including Official Map.
   A.   Make Recommendations: Approve or disapprove the proposed preliminary
plat and submit its written recommendations, including the recommendations of
the Village Engineer and Village Attorney, to the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Advise Subdivider: If the Plan Commission finds that changes, additions
or corrections are required on the preliminary plat, the Plan Commission shall
so advise the subdivider. The subdivider may resubmit the preliminary plat to
the Plan Commission, paying a fifty dollar ($50.00) meeting fee, for
consideration at the next regular meeting.
   The resubmission of a preliminary plat shall be considered a new submission
to establish the time for review.
   C.   Attendance at Plan Commission Meetings: The Plan Commission need not
review a preliminary plat unless the subdivider or his authorized agent is
present at the meeting, except when prior approval has been given by the Plan
Commission.
   D.   Notification to Subdivider: The Plan Commission shall not be obliged to
give official written notification of Plan Commission action to the subdivider.
10-2-2-9: ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD:
If such plat is approved by the Plan Commission, the Village Board shall accept
or reject said plat within thirty (30) days after its next regular scheduled
meeting following the action of the Plan Commission. Provided, however,
preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording. The preliminary
plat, as submitted to the Board of Trustees, must have designated thereon the
words "This is a Preliminary Plat, of no Legal Effect, and Not to be Recorded".
Acceptance of the preliminary plat shall become effective only after the
"Approval of Preliminary Plat" certificates on the preliminary plan are signed
and dated. The Village Clerk shall return to the subdivider one of the two (2)
signed copies of the preliminary plat and the other copy shall be returned to
the Plan Commission. The Village Clerk shall also submit to the subdivider a
check list for the final plat, Form 4 (shown in Chapter 6 of this Title).
10-2-2-10: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPROVAL:
The following qualifications shall govern approval of the preliminary plat:
   A.   Approval of a preliminary plat by the Plan Commission and the Board of
Trustees is tentative, only, involving merely the general acceptability of the
layout as submitted, and shall not qualify the plat for recording.
   B.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one
year. Upon application of the subdivider, the Board of Trustees may grant an
extension. The application for said extension shall not require an additional
filing fee.
   C.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not be made until reimbursement
is made from the escrow account to the Village for expenses incurred in review
of the preliminary plat and supporting documentation.
10-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
10-2-3-1: FILING:
Following approval of the preliminary plat by the Board of Trustees, the
subdivider shall submit to the Village Clerk for distribution at least ten (10)
days prior to the Plan Commission meeting:
   A.   Eighteen (18) copies of each of the following, to be distributed as
follows: Plan Commission, eight (8); President and Board of Trustees, seven
(7); Village Attorney, one; Village Engineer, one; one copy to be noted in
"Communications Received" and retained for the Village files:
      1.   Application for final plat, Form 3 (shown in Chapter 6 of this
Title).
      2.   Final plat of proposed subdivision.
   B.   Three (3) copies of each of the following to be distributed to the Plan
Commission:
      1.   Plans and specifications of the improvements required therein.
      2.   Agreements.
      3.   Completion guarantee.
      4.   Bond.
      5.   Current title commitment.
   C.   Review Fees: Estimated costs for review of the final plat shall be
obtained from the Village Engineer and Village Attorney. Estimated review costs
shall be required of the subdivider and held in an escrow account until such
payment is required. Payment from the escrow account to the Village shall be
made prior to approval of the final plat.
10-2-3-2: ACREAGE FEE:
At the time of approval of the final plat and before the recording and filing
of the approved final plat of subdivision, an acreage fee of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per acre or portion thereof shall be paid by the subdivider
to the Village.
10-2-3-3: CONFORMANCE WITH PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The final plat shall conform substantially to the approved preliminary plat. It
may, with the Board of Trustees' consent, constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
it that time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
10-2-3-4: FILING PERIOD:
The final plat shall be filed with the Board of Trustees not later than twelve
(12) months after the date of approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise the
preliminary plat will be considered void unless an extension is requested by
the subdivider in writing and granted in writing by the Board of Trustees.
10-2-3-5: FORM AND CONTENT:
The final plat shall be accurately drawn in ink on tracing cloth or mylar
drafting film, in a manner that clear and legible transparent or contact prints
or photostatic copies can be made. The final plat shall be at a scale of one
hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1") on sheets not to exceed twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). Where necessary, the plat may be drawn on
several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision.
The final plat shall show the following:
   A.   Name of subdivision.
   B.   Legal description of property encompassing the subdivision. (Ord. 272,
3-20-78)
   C.   Names and addresses of the owner, owner of record (including the names
and addresses of all beneficiaries of any land trust, accompanied by a
certified copy of the trust agreement and all amendments thereto), the
subdivider, and designer who prepared the plan. The proof of ownership shall be
in the form of a certified copy of a title insurance policy or a tract search,
supplied by a company in the business of investigating land titles, no more
than sixty (60) days old at the time of said filing. In the event the title
appears in the name of a land trust, the trustee or a beneficiary thereof shall
identify each beneficiary of such land trust by name and address and define his
interest therein. (Ord. 79-3-6, 3-19-79)
   D.   Scale, one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') shown graphically.
   E.   Date.
   F.   North point.
   G.   Boundary of plat, based upon an accurate traverse, with angular and
lineal dimensions.
   H.   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and adjoining the
plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalkways.
   I.   Distances to the nearest established street lines or official monuments
(not less than 3) which shall be accurately described on the plat.
   J.   Township and section lines and Municipal boundaries accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
   K.   Radii, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent lengths, and
bearings and lengths of all arcs.
   L.   All easements provided for public services, drainage and utilities.
   M.   Layout, numbers, dimensions and size of lots, in square feet. When lots
are located on a curve, the lot width at the building setback line shall be
shown. Street address for each lot.
   N.   Accurate location of all monuments which shall be concrete with iron
pipe cased in center. A minimum of two (2) such monuments shall be set at the
opposite extremities of the subdivision. Iron pipe stakes, a minimum length of
twenty four inches (24"), shall be set at all lot corners, at each end of all
curves, at all angle points in any line, at all angle points along a meander
line, the points to be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the normal
water elevation of a lake or from the bank of a stream, except that when such
corners or points fall within a street, or proposed future street, then such
pipes shall be set at such actual corners. All U.S., State, County or other
official bench marks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position.
   O.   Lot or lots to be dedicated or reserved for public use, with the
purposes indicated thereon, and of any lot or lots to be reserved by deed
covenant for common ownership and use of all property owners.
   P.   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions.
   Q.   Protective covenants which shall be lettered on the final plat, or on
an attached document in form for recording. (See Form 6 as shown in Chapter 6
of this Title, and reference in Section
10-3-4C of this Title.)
   R.   Listing of all public authorities having jurisdiction thereof.
   S.   Owner's (and, if required, any mortgage holder of record) certificate
to the effect that he has caused the land described to be subdivided along with
a notary certificate of owner's signature.
   T.   Need to include notary certificate.
   U.   President and Board of Trustees' certificate approving and accepting
the plat attested by the Village Clerk.
   V.   Recorder's certificate certifying that the final plat is recorded in
the County of Lake.
   W.   Surveyor's certificate to the effect that he has surveyed and
subdivided the property and the plat represents a true and accurate
representation of said survey and subdivision.
   X.   Plan Commission certificate approving the plat.
   Y.   County Clerk certificate to the effect that there are no taxes against
any land included in the plat.
   Z.   Special assessment.
   AA.   Village Engineer's certificate to certify that all of the improvements
meet the standards of all Village ordinances, certifies that the final plat
conforms with the preliminary plan and includes the proper easements.
   BB.   Village Attorney's certificate certifies that the improvement security
is in the proper form and amount, checks the final plat and all accompanying
documents.
   CC.   Certificate of easements for all public utilities and such other
disclosures.
   DD.   Such other certificates as may be required by Illinois State Statutes.
10-2-3-6: SUPPLEMENTAL DOCUMENTS:
The final plat to be filed of record shall be accompanied by the following
documents:
   A.   Plans and specifications and cost estimates for all improvements in
accordance with the standards herein or as required during the review of the
preliminary plat. The Village Engineer shall certify by signing the plat that
the improvements described in the subdivider's plans and specifications meet
the minimum requirements of all ordinances of the Village prior to any action
by the Plan Commission.
   B.   A letter of approval from the State or County Highway Department shall
be submitted if the project fronts on a County highway.
   C.   IEPA permit applications requiring Village signature such as water and
sanitary sewer shall be submitted completely filled out ready for the Village
signature, and sent to the Village Engineer for approval.
   D.   Current title commitment showing ownership, liens and encumbrances.
   E.   A subdivision improvement deposit in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of improvements shall be
placed in escrow in accordance with the terms of the escrow agreement contained
in Appendix II (shown in Chapter 6 of this Title) for the purpose of:
      1.   To pay the actual costs of construction of the subdivision
improvements.
      2.   To pay the engineering and inspection fees of the Village.
      3.   To pay the cost of maintaining the subdivision improvements and
repair to existing improvements and damage caused by making the aforesaid
subdivision improvements for a period of two (2) years after acceptance.
      4.   Any other customary expenses of the developer in meeting any
requirements of the Village pertaining to the subdivision.
   F.   A subdivider may elect to deposit an amount equal to one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of improvements directly with the
Village. The Village, upon the certification of the Village Engineer that the
improvements have been completed or partially completed, will pay to the
contractor, in not more than three (3) payments, the amount due under the
contract. The Village will also make the distribution of funds from the deposit
for the fees and cost of:
      1.   Engineering and inspection.
      2.   Maintaining the subdivision improvements for a period of two (2)
years after acceptance, and to repair any damage done to existing improvements
caused by making the aforesaid subdivision improvements.
      3.   Any other costs or expenses in meeting the requirements of the
Village.
Nothing in this subsection will relieve the subdivider of bearing the full cost
for the subdivision improvements and expenses required by the Village.
   G.   After completion and acceptance of the subdivision improvements, the
Village will authorize the refund of any residue remaining, except for ten
percent (10%) of the original deposit or the amount stipulated in the escrow
agreement. The retained amount shall be used for maintenance of the
improvements for a period of two (2) years after the date of acceptance and
then any balance remaining will be refunded.
   H.   The subdivider shall secure and maintain such insurance from an
insurance company authorized to write casualty insurance in the State where the
work is located as will protect himself, his subcontractors, the Village and
the Engineer and his employees from claims from bodily injury, death or
property damage which may arise from subdividing the property. The subdivider
shall not commence work until he has obtained all insurance required under this
paragraph and shall have filed the certificate of insurance or the certified
copy of the insurance policy with the Village. Each insurance policy shall
contain a clause providing that it shall not be canceled by the insurance
company without ten (10) days' written notice to the Village of intention to
cancel. The amount of such insurance shall be not less than the following:
      1.   Workmen's compensation and employer's liability insurance shall be
secured and maintained as required by the State.
      2.   Public liability, bodily injury and property damage:
         a.   Injury or death of one person -- $500,000.00.
         b.   Injury to more than one person in a single accident -
- $1,000,000.00.
         c.   Property damage -- $250,000.00.
      3.   Automobile and truck public liability, bodily injury and property
damage:
         a.   Injury or death of one person -- $500,000.00.
         b.   Injury to more than one person -- $1,000,000.00.
         c.   Property damage -- $250,000.00.
   I.   Indemnity: The subdivider shall indemnify and save harmless the Village
and the Engineer and his employees from and against all losses and all claims,
demands, payments, suits, actions, recoveries and judgments of every nature and
description brought or recovered against him by reason of any omission or act
of the subdivider, his agents or employees in the execution of the work or in
the guarding of it. The subdivider shall obtain in the name of the Village and
shall maintain and pay the premiums for such insurance in such amount and with
such provisions as will protect the Village from contingent liability and a
copy of such insurance policy or policies shall be delivered to the Village.
Full compliance by the Village with the terms and provisions of such insurance
policy or policies shall be a condition precedent to the Village's right to
enforce against the subdivider any provisions of this Chapter.
   J.   Fire Insurance: In addition to such fire insurance as the subdivider
elects to carry for his own protection, he shall secure and maintain in the
name of the Village policies upon such structures and material and in such
amounts as shall be designated. The policies shall be secured from a company
which is satisfactory to the Village and delivered to the Village.
10-2-3-7: QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING APPROVAL:
The final plat to be placed on record shall be approved, subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   Recorded as prescribed herein.
   B.   The approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or
effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat.
10-2-3-8: ACTION BY VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk shall receive eighteen (18) copies of the final plat and
supplemental documents. Distribution shall be as outlined in Section
10-2-3-1 of this Chapter. The Village Clerk shall also inform the subdivider of
the date, time and place of the meeting at which the Plan Commission will
review the submission. At such time as the preliminary plat is approved, the
Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the order or resolution of
approval to a copy of the plat. If the proposed plat is disapproved, the order
or resolution shall state the reasons for the disapproval, specifying with
particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to the
Official Map. A copy of the order or resolution shall be filed in the office of
the Village Clerk.
10-2-3-9: ACTION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
When a person submitting a plat of subdivision or resubdivision for final
approval has supplied all drawings, maps and other documents required by the
Municipal ordinances to be furnished in support thereof, and if all such
material meets all Municipal requirements, the Plan Commission shall approve
the proposed plat within thirty (30) days of the date of filing the last
required document or other paper or within thirty (30) days from the date of
filing application for final approval of the plat, whichever date is later. The
applicant and the Plan Commission may mutually agree to extend the thirty (30)
day period. When the Plan Commission approves, as aforesaid, it shall fix upon
the plat the certifying signature of its chairman and forthwith deliver the
plat to the Village Clerk for final consideration and approval by the Board of
Trustees.
10-2-3-10: ACTION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
Within thirty (30) days from the date of the approval of the plat by the Plan
Commission, or within such additional time as the applicant and the Board of
Trustees may mutually agree upon, the Board of Trustees shall consider the
final plat, and if the person submitting the plat for final approval has
supplied all drawings, maps and other documents required by the Municipal
ordinances to be furnished in support thereof, and if all such material meets
all Municipal requirements, the Board of Trustees shall approve the proposed
final plat within the aforesaid thirty (30) days. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-2-3-11: ESCROW DEPOSITS:
Prior to initial consideration by the Board of Trustees of the Village of an
annexation agreement, a plat of subdivision or a request for zoning variation
which will require review by either or both the Village Attorney and the
Village Engineer or which may require publication of legal notices, an initial
minimum escrow deposit of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a commercial
development or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a residential development
shall be made with the Village Treasurer. Said deposit may be set at a higher
amount if deemed necessary by the Building Chairman and the Finance Chairman.
In no event shall the deposit be set at a lower amount unless approved by a
two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Board of Trustees.
Petitioner may be required to deposit additional funds to cover expenses
incurred by the Village relating to their petition. Requests for additional
deposits must be complied with within ten (10) working days from the date of
request or petitioner will be deemed as having withdrawn his petition. (Ord.
85-7-40, 7-16-85)
10-2-3-12: FILING OF PLATS:
Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the Village Clerk shall give the
original and two (2) copies thereof to the Village Attorney who shall
immediately record the plat with the Recorder of Lake County. The Village
Attorney shall thereupon give a copy of the recorded plat to the subdivider and
the original copy to the Village Clerk for filing in the Village records. The
subdivider shall reimburse the Village for any fees incurred. (Ord. 272, 3-20-
78)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Block Standards
10-3-2: Lot Standards
10-3-3: Easements
10-3-4: Street Standards
10-3-5: Alleys
10-3-6: Public Sidewalks and Pedestrian Ways
10-3-1: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   Configuration, General: The shape of blocks shall be determined by
topographical features, the basic street system and traffic pattern, lot
depths, and areas designated for public and other nonresidential land uses. In
addition to these, the lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
      1.   Site Adequacy: Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning: Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions. 1
      3.   Convenience: Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and
safety of street traffic.
   B.   Length:
      1.   Residential Subdivisions: The block length shall be as recommended
by the Plan Commission and approved by the Village Board.
      2.   Nonresidential Subdivisions: The block length shall be as
recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the Village Board.
   C.   Configuration, Nonresidential:
      1.   Blocks intended for business or industrial use must be designated as
such, and the plan must show adequate off-street areas to provide for parking,
loading docks and such other facilities as may be required to accommodate motor
vehicles.
      2.   In front of areas zoned or designated for business use the street
width and the roadway widths shall be increased on the side or sides on which
the property for commercial use is located by a merging lane at least eleven
feet (11') wide to insure the free flow of traffic without interference by
vehicles entering or leaving parking areas. This is not to be considered a part
of the parking area herein required. It is intended that where the abutting
property on both sides of a street is developed for commercial use there shall
be two (2) such lanes in addition to the minimum required street width.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
10-3-2: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Configuration of Lots: The lot size, width, depth, shape and
orientation shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for
the type of development and use contemplated. Due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development.
   B.   Conformance With Zoning Regulations: Width and area of lots shall
conform to or exceed the lot width and area requirements set forth in the
Zoning Ordinance of the Village (Title 9 of this Code) or that of the
appropriate County in the unincorporated areas beyond the Village limits,
except that subdivisions contiguous to the Village shall conform to all
applicable requirements of the Village Zoning Ordinance. Corner lots shall be
sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow maintenance of building lines
on both sides fronting on a street.
   C.   Nonresidential Lots: Width, area and depth of lots in an industrial or
business subdivision shall be as recommended by the Plan Commission and
approved by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Adequate Building Site Required: Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage
way, channel or stream shall have additional minimum width and depth as
required to provide an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable
area required in the Zoning Ordinance (Title 9 of this Code) for front, rear
and side yards, as recommended by the Plan Commission. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
   E.   Through Lots: The platting of new through lots is forbidden, except
where the front yards of such lots abut a minor street and the rear yards of
such lots back upon a primary or secondary street, and where vehicular access
is provided only from the minor street; or except as a special use subject to
Section
9-11-9 of the Zoning Title. The Village Board shall determine which street
frontage is the front and which is the rear for existing vacant through lots,
based on the characteristics of adjacent streets, the compatibility of nearby
properties and the wishes of the owner of the property. In every zoning
district the rear of each through lot shall be subject to the minimum front
yard building setback required in that district. (Ord. 95-9-12, 9-19-95)
   F.   Driveway Location: Lots shall be arranged to provide for a minimum of
driveway openings on primary and secondary streets. Driveway locations on
corner lots shall be indicated on the final plat and the location shown shall
appear as a covenant running with that lot.
   G.   Frontage: All lots shall front on a private road easement or publicly
dedicated street, as recommended by the Plan Commission. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-3-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Public Utility Easements: Utility distribution or transmission
installations serving the subdivision may be located in underground easements
and so designated on the subdivision plat of record. Such easements may be
located along the rear lot lines, side lot lines or front lot lines. They shall
occupy not less than twenty feet (20') of which ten feet (10') may be shown on
each of two (2) adjacent lots. Public utility easements, including but not
limited to telephone, electricity, gas, sewer, water, TV cables, and drainage
shall be indicated as such on the final plat and shall not be used for drainage
purposes, except that they may be graded as a drainage swale.
   B.   Drainage Easements: Where a subdivision is transversed by a
watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a
drainage easement or right of way conforming substantially with the lines of
such watercourse, and further width as will be necessary for the purpose of
adequately maintaining or improving the watercourse. Said easements shall not
be used for any other purposes, except that utilities may cross this easement;
provided, that the crossing does not alter the intended use of the easement.
The size of the easement shall be recommended by the Plan Commission and
Village Engineer.
   C.   Village Utility Easements: Whenever it is necessary to install water
main, sanitary sewer, storm sewers or other underground utilities to be
maintained by the Village in areas other than public rights of way, easements
shall be established and so designated. Easements may not be less than twenty
feet (20') wide, ten feet (10') of which may be shown on each of two (2)
adjacent lots.
Whenever the Village utilities and the public utilities follow a common route,
they may be in a common easement termed a utility easement. Said easements
shall be of adequate width for the purpose intended, but in no case shall it be
less than twenty feet (20').
   D.   Continuity Of Easements: Easements shall be designed to provide
continuity throughout the entire subdivision. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
10-3-4: STREET STANDARDS:
   A.   Street Arrangements: All streets shall be on private easements, unless
otherwise recommended by the Plan Commission. Where such is not shown on the
Official Map, the arrangement of streets within a subdivision shall:
      1.   Continuity: Provide for the continuation or projection of existing
principal streets in adjacent areas, or conform to a plan for the area or
neighborhood approved or adopted by the Plan Commission to meet a particular
situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or
conformance to existing streets impracticable.
      2.   Street Jogs: Avoid street jogs with center line offsets of less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') unless required to conform to a street
plan.
      3.   Intersections: Evidence that all street intersections and
confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and, in general, are at
right angles. Only three-way intersections shall be permitted unless otherwise
recommended by the Plan Commission.
      4.   Residence Serving: Provide that streets serving principally
residences shall be laid out so their use by through traffic will be
discouraged.
   B.   Street Names: Street names shall not duplicate, nor be confused with,
the names of existing streets. (Existing street names must be projected
wherever possible, and all street names are subject to approval of the Board of
Trustees.)
   Streets shall not contain reserve strips controlling access to public
utilities, streets or alleys.
   C.   Covenants And Restrictions: Where private road easements are utilized,
there shall be provided a declaration of covenants and restrictions providing
for the maintenance of said streets by the property owners. The executed
declaration of covenants and restrictions shall accompany the final plat of the
subdivision. (See Form 6, As shown in Chapter 6 of this Title.)
   D.   Minimum Street Standards:
      1.   Minimum Dimensions: All road easements or rights of way for streets
shall conform to the following minimum dimensions:
         a.   Primary Streets: Conform to major street plan, but in no instance
less than eighty feet (80') in width.
         b.   Secondary Streets: Not less than eighty feet (80') in width.
         c.   Minor Streets: (See tables in subsection
10-5-2B).
         d.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: (See tables in subsection
10-5-2B).
         e.   Frontage Roads: Not less than forty feet (40') in width.
         f.   Bike Paths And Walkways: Not less than ten feet (10') in width.
         g.   Alley: Not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
      2.   Visibility: Clear visibility, measured along the center line of the
street, shall be provided for at least three hundred feet (300') on all primary
streets, and at least one hundred feet (100') on all other streets.
      3.   Alleys: Alleys are not permitted, except where recommended by the
Plan Commission and Board of Trustees.
      4.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets are encouraged.
      5.   Frontage Roads: Where property to be subdivided is zoned or is
planned to be zoned industrial or business and said property borders on or
contains an existing or proposed primary street where access is or may be
limited in the future, the Plan Commission may require a frontage road.
   Right-of-way widths for frontage roads, when required, shall be in addition
to the adjacent trafficway and planting strip.
   Points of access from the frontage road to the primary street shall be
spaced at a minimum of one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320'). A
planting strip having a minimum width of twenty feet (20') shall be provided
between the pavement of the arterial street and the pavement of the frontage
road.
      6.   Partial Streets: Partial streets shall be prohibited. Where a
dedicated partial street exists adjacent to the parcel being subdivided, the
other half shall be platted and improved according to the standards contained
herein.
   Where the dedication of a right of way is required on land not wholly owned
by the developer, the Trustees may take such action as is required to secure
said rights of way and the developer shall pay such costs as well as the cost
of the required improvements.
      7.   Horizontal Alignment: When there is an angle of deflection of more
than ten degrees (10°) between two (2) center line tangent sections of a
street, a curve of two hundred feet (200') minimum radius shall connect them.
      8.   Vertical Alignment: At all changes in grade, a vertical curve shall
be introduced. The length of the curve shall be in accordance with the type and
use of the street.
   E.   Street Design: Street design and geometrics not covered in this Section
shall be in accordance with applicable standards of the Illinois Department of
Transportation and American Association of State Highway Officials "Urban
Highways and Arterial Streets". (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
   F.   Frontage: When a frontage requirement is set forth in any applicable
ordinance in the Village with respect to a street, said street must serve at
least three (3) or more lots of record. (Ord. 88-11-22, 11-15-88)
10-3-5: ALLEYS:
   A.   In commercial, business and industrial districts, definite and assured
provisions shall be made for service access such as off- street loading,
unloading and parking consistent and adequate for the uses proposed. If in the
opinion of the Plan Commission such facilities are not adequate, the Plan
Commission may permit or require the dedication and improvement of a public
alley.
   B.   Alleys in residential areas are not permitted.
   C.   Sharp changes and dead-ends in alley alignment shall be avoided. (Ord.
272, 3-20-78)
10-3-6: PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS:
   A.   The Plan Commission may recommend that sidewalks be provided where
considered necessary to public safety due to anticipated concentration of
pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks with not less than a ten foot (10') right
of way, not necessarily paved, may be required near the center of any block in
excess of one thousand feet (1,000') in length when recommended by the Plan
Commission and approved by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
CHAPTER 4
SCHOOL, PARK AND PUBLIC LAND SITES
SECTION:
10-4-1: General
10-4-2: Parks, Preserves And Other Public Areas
10-4-3: School District Agreements
10-4-1: GENERAL:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of the subdivision, each subdivider
of more than six (6) acres shall be required to dedicate land for a school
site, park site or other public land to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the development; or cash contributions in lieu of actual land
dedication; or a combination of both, at the option of the Village in
accordance with the following criteria and formula:
The Comprehensive Plan 1  shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. (Ord.
272, 3-20-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
10-4-2: PARKS, PRESERVES AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be one acre of land per one hundred
fifty (150) of ultimate population in accordance with the following standards
by types of recreational and park areas:
      1.   Neighborhood Park: Minimum one acre.
      2.   Village-Wide Recreational Park: Minimum five (5) acres.
   B.   Population Formula: The formula used shall be four and four- tenths
(4.4) population per lot.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Neighborhood parks are to be located within the subdivision or added
to another adjacent subdivision.
      2.   Village-wide parks shall be located in accordance with the
requirements of the Comprehensive Plan or as recommended by the Plan Commission
and approved by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Credit for Private Open Spaces and Recreational Areas: When subdividers
provide their own space for recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect
of reducing the demand for local public recreational services. Depending on the
size of the subdivision, a portion of the park and recreation area in the
subdivision may, at the option of the Board of Trustees, be provided in the
form of "private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open space. The
extent of same shall be determined by the Board of Trustees, based upon the
needs projected by residents and in conformance to the total park and
recreation land for the general area.
   E.   Criteria for Requiring a Cash Contribution in Lieu of Land Dedication:
Where the subdivision is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical or where the available land is inappropriate for school site, park
site or other public use, the Village may require the subdivider to pay a cash
contribution in lieu of land dedication. The cash contribution in lieu of land
dedication shall be held by the Village solely for the acquisition of a school
site, park site or public land facilities or buildings which will be available
to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that subdivision and
the general Village residents or for the improvement of other existing public
land which already serves such needs. This contribution shall be designated by
the Board of Trustees for a specific use within ten (10) years of the
completion of the subdivision. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
      Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based
on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation sites. It has been determined that the present "fair market value"
of such improved land in and surrounding the Village is two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000.00) per acre and such figure shall be used in making any
calculation herein unless the subdivider files a written objection thereto. In
the event of any such objection, the subdivider shall submit an appraisal
showing the "fair market value" of such improved land in the area of his
development or other evidence thereof and final determination of said "fair
market value" per acre of such improved land shall be made by the Board of
Trustees based upon such information submitted by the subdivider. (Ord. 272, 3-
20-78; amd. Ord. 88-2-6, 2-16-88; Ord. 90-5-3, 5-15-90)
   F.   Criteria for Requiring Land Dedication and a Contribution: There may be
situations where it will be necessary to require a combination of land
dedication and a contribution to meet the needs of this Chapter. Such
recommendations shall be made by the Plan Commission and approved by the Board
of Trustees.
   G.   Reservation of Additional Land: Where the development plan or the
requirements of the Village call for a larger amount of park and recreational
land in a particular subdivision than the developer is required to dedicate,
the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved for
subsequent purchase by the Village or other public body designated by the
Village; provided, that such acquisition is made within one year from the date
of approval of the final plat, or an agreement between the developer and the
Village is recorded outlining specific conditions for the conveyance of such
property.
   H.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision is less
than forty (40) acres, public open space which is to be dedicated should, where
possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining subdivisions in order to
produce useable recreation areas without hardship on a particular subdivider.
   I.   Topography and Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes.
   J.   Improvement of Sites: Park and recreational sites shall be dedicated
fully developed ready for use. Fully developed shall mean all site grading
including surface drainage and seeding and sodding required for the intended
use, but not including final development such as baseball, tennis or like
facilities nor any structures. Fully developed shall also mean providing
adequate access to and fully developed perimeter streets. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-4-3: SCHOOL DISTRICT AGREEMENTS:
The subdivider shall meet with the affected school district or districts and
determine the needs based on the demographic study which may be required to be
submitted with the preliminary plat. As a condition of approval of the final
plat, a letter of agreement between the school district and/or districts and
the subdivider shall be forwarded to the Plan Commission for their
recommendation to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Statements
10-5-2: Street Improvements
10-5-3: Streetlights
10-5-4: Methods Of Construction For Required Underground Improvements
10-5-5: Utility Improvements
10-5-6: Sanitary Sewer And Water Main Specifications
10-5-7: Storm Drainage
10-5-8: Site Grading Plan
10-5-9: Public Utilities
10-5-10: Landscaping
10-5-11: Street Name Signs
10-5-12: General Standards Of Design And Construction; Parking Lot And Sidewalk
Standards
10-5-13: Inspection Required
10-5-14: Acceptance
10-5-15: Cost Of Oversize Improvements
10-5-16: Construction Inspection Fees
10-5-17: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
10-5-1: GENERAL STATEMENTS:
   A.   No subdivision of land shall be approved by the Village Board unless
and until plans and specifications incorporating all improvements required
under this Title are reviewed and approved by the Village Attorney and
Engineer.
   B.   The Board of Trustees may, from time to time, adopt as standards
certain specifications and details supplementing and clarifying this Title or
other ordinances of the Village. Such specifications and details, when adopted,
shall be printed and made available for inspection and purchase.
   C.   In addition to the requirements contained herein, the subdivider shall
comply with all applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance (Title 9 of this
Code), Official Map and Comprehensive Plan of the Village and such other
ordinances as are applicable.
   D.   Natural Growth Areas: The Village has special interest in preserving
the natural environs and creating subdivisions which attempt to look wooded and
natural rather than open and developed. Therefor, the subdivider shall do all
that is necessary in designing and improving the subdivision so that the land
is changed to this goal. Trees and shrubs must be preserved and new growth of
trees and shrubs should be included and incorporated in the final plat
improvement. In all cases strict adherence to Title 8, Chapter 5 of this Code,
Land Grading and Erosion Control, is required and said provisions used as
guidelines. Consultation with the Village Forester is encouraged.
   E.   Hazard Areas: During land improvements the subdivider is to protect the
public from injury by covering, fencing, posting or shielding any area that is
open or hazardous.
10-5-2: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Minimum and Maximum Street Grades: All street grades shall be in
accordance with the limits as set in Table I.
TABLE I
Street Grades
 
Type of Street                Maximum Minimum Ditches Minimum
Primary and Secondary         5.0%    0.6%    0.6%
Minor Streets and Cul-de-sacs 5.0%    0.6%    0.6%
Street Widths: All streets shall be improved with paved surfaces as shown on
Table II.
 
   B.   Tables II and III
TABLE II                                 TABLE III
PAVEMENT WIDTH                           ROAD EASEMENTS OR RIGHT- OF-WAY
     Wooded and Wooded and    Non-Wooded Under ten               Turning radius
Size under 10   over 10 acres open lots  lots      Over ten lots on cul-de-sac
     acres                                                       *
TABLE II                                        TABLE III
PAVEMENT WIDTH                                  ROAD EASEMENTS OR RIGHT- OF-WAY
           Wooded and Wooded and   Non-Wooded   Under ten Over ten Turning
Size       under 10   over 10      open lots    lots      lots     radius on
           acres      acres                                        cul-de-sac *
           12 feet of              16 feet with
60,000 sq. pavement   16 feet with ditches or
ft. and    with       underdrain   underdrains  30 feet   40 feet  60 feet
over       underdrain system       system
           system
           16 feet of              20 feet with
42,000 sq. pavement   20 feet with ditches or
ft.        with       underdrain   underdrains  40 feet   60 feet  60 feet
           underdrain system       system
           system
           20 feet of              24 feet with
26,000 sq. pavement   24 feet with ditches or
ft.        with       underdrain   underdrains  50 feet   60 feet  80 feet
           underdrain system       system
           system
13,000 square feet, commercial and 27 feet back to back of curb and gutter, 60
industrial:                        feet right of way, with storm sewers.
* Right-of-way for Cul-de-sacs shall be determined by the Plan Commission.
 
   C.   Soils Report: Soils reports may be required. A profile of the
subsurface conditions shall be provided to a depth as recommended by the
Village Engineer. The soils profile shall show the types of soils, natural
moisture content, unconfined compression strength, ground water data, and frost
susceptible material. IBR values shall be made available to the Village for
checking the roadway design, if required.
   D.   Minimum Bituminous Concrete Surface and Flexible Base Thicknesses:
Surface and base course materials indicated in Table IV will be permitted for
the construction of roadways within the Village. No roadway shall be built with
less than the specified thicknesses, regardless of the number of movements
projected or the IBR values of the soil. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
      TABLE IV
      Minimum Base and Surface Thicknesses
 
Base Course    Secondary Streets           Minor and Cul-de-sac
                                           Streets
              Base Course Bit. Conc. Sur. Base Course Bit. Conc. Sur.
               Thickness   Course          Thickness   Course
Aggregate                                              
Course Type B             3"                         21/2"
100% Crushed   14"         (C1.I)          10"         (C1.I)
(Grade No. 9)
Bituminous                                           
Aggregate Base 6"          3"              6"          11/2"
Course                     (C1.I)                      (C1.I)
 
(Ord. 83-3-2, 3-24-83)
NOTES:
   1.   If a sub-base course material is used, the base material may be reduced
in accordance with the thickness of sub-base material used and the State of
Illinois structural coefficient. In no case shall the base course material be
less than six inches (6") thick.
   D.   All bituminous surface shall be placed in two (2) lifts. The initial
lift shall be placed immediately after base construction; the second lift after
one winter and upon approval of the Village Engineer if, in his opinion, all
sub-base and trench settlement has been completed.
   E.   Minimum Radii: No street intersection shall be constructed with less
than the minimum radii specified in Table V.
      TABLE V
      Table of Minimum Radii
Minimum Radii Type of Intersection
Minimum Radii Type of Intersection
25 foot       Cul-de-sac to minor street
              Minor street to minor street
              Cul-de-sac to secondary street
              Cul-de-sac to primary street
30 foot       Minor street to secondary street
              Secondary street to secondary street
              Minor street to primary street
              Secondary street to primary street
 
   F.   Materials, Inspection: Subgrade compaction and all materials
incorporated into the roadway section shall be tested by a competent testing
laboratory. Tests shall be made in compliance with current State of Illinois
recommendations, except that plant inspectors will not be required in plants
continuously during production. However, one random test shall be made daily on
all material used.
   Results of all tests conducted shall be forwarded to the Village Engineer
for his review and approval. Work will not be accepted without test results
submitted to the Village.
   The subdivider is required to provide cores on the roadway system in order
to verify surface and base thicknesses. Cores shall be taken at five hundred
inch (500") intervals or as directed by the Village Engineer.
   G.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks, if required, shall be of Portland cement concrete
and shall be not less than four feet (4') in width nor four inches (4") in
thickness in residential subdivisions, and not less than five feet (5') in
width nor four inches (4") in thickness in commercial subdivisions. Sidewalks
shall be placed six inches (6") from the lot lines, or as recommended by the
Village Board.
   H.   Planning Jurisdiction: In subdivisions, developments or planned
developments outside the corporate area of the Village, but within its planning
jurisdiction, roadway improvements shall conform to standards herein set forth.
   I.   Plans: Complete plans shall be provided to the Village for review and
recommendation by the Village Engineer. The plans shall include all existing
and proposed information including typical roadway, sections, typical curb and
gutter sections, if required, treatment of parkways, profiles, soil profiles
and drainage layout. The subdivider shall be responsible for supplying the
Village Engineer with all detailed calculations and other data pertinent to the
design of the streets, sewers, water mains and drainage improvements.
10-5-3: STREET LIGHTS:
There shall be street lights at all intersections with public roads, and on all
intersections in areas with a density greater than one single-family residence
per forty two thousand (42,000) square foot lots. Nonresidential lighting shall
be as recommended by the Plan Commission.
10-5-4: METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION FOR REQUIRED UNDERGROUND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Excavation: Where working conditions and right of way permit, pipe line
trenches with sloping sides may be used.
   The slopes shall not extend below the top of the pipe, and trench
excavations below this point shall be made with vertical sides with widths not
exceeding those specified herein for the various sizes of pipe.
   Open-cut trenches shall be sheeted and braced as required by the governing
State and Federal laws and Municipal ordinances, and as may be necessary to
protect life, property, or the work.
   Where firm foundation is not encountered at the grade established due to
unsuitable soil, all such unsuitable material shall be removed and replaced
with approved compacted granular material.
   B.   Width of Trench: The maximum width of the trench at the top of the pipe
shall be as follows:
 
4" through 18" diameter pipe  36"
20" through 30" diameter pipe 48"
Larger than 30" diameter pipe 1.33 x pipe O. D.
 
   C.   Removal of Water: Contractors shall, at all times during construction,
provide and maintain ample means and devices with which to remove and properly
dispose of all water entering the excavations. No sanitary sewer shall be used
for disposal of trench water, unless specifically approved by the Engineer and
then only if the trench water does not ultimately arrive at existing pumping or
sewage treatment facilities.
   D.   Bedding of Pipe: All pipe shall be installed on a bed of approved,
compacted granular material unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer.
The bedding material shall have a minimum thickness of four inches (4") below
the bottom of the pipe, and depth shall be dependent on the type of pipe used.
   E.   Special Backfill: Whenever the excavation is in existing or proposed
streets, parking areas, driveways, or other paved areas, or within twenty four
inches (24") thereof, the trench shall be backfilled with approved selected
granular material, compacted in place. The top twelve inches (12") of the
backfill shall be filled with road gravel or crushed stone and maintained as a
temporary surface for the normal use of the area.
   Special backfill shall consist of sand, pit-run gravel, or crushed stone and
shall be compacted in place to ninety five percent (95%) of maximum density at
optimum moisture as determined by the Standard Proctor Test.
   F.   Restoration of Drainage: As soon as possible after backfilling the
trench, all ditching, grading and shaping necessary to restore the original
drainage in the area of work shall be performed. Culverts removed during the
course of the work shall be replaced as soon as practicable.
   Adequate temporary drainage facilities shall be provided during
construction. The surface must be returned to the same condition after
completion of the excavation and shall not be judged complete until at least
one year, including a winter and complete spring has passed. It shall be
adjudged complete only after inspection and approval by the Village Engineer.
   G.   Utilities: The subdivider shall notify all utilities prior to the
installation of any pipe lines. Where conflict exists between underground
utilities and the proposed underground piping requiring a revision to the
plans, such construction shall not be undertaken until such changes are
approved by the Village Engineer in writing.
10-5-5: UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Where the Village Engineer determines that it is feasible and the Plan
Commission recommends to the Board of Trustees that it is in the best public
interest, sanitary sewers shall be installed by the subdivider to serve all
properties in the subdivision. The plans and specifications for such
improvements shall be subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and,
basically, shall conform to the standards and specifications set forth in the
Village ordinances for similar construction. Where it is determined that it is
not feasible or desirable to install sanitary sewers, then individual septic
systems for each lot may be used, provided:
      1.   Septic systems shall not be used on any lots of less than eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet.
      2.   Satisfactory individual percolation tests performed by a civil
engineer under the supervision of the Village Engineer shall be submitted with
the preliminary plat.
      3.   The subdivider shall secure an IEPA permit and such other permits as
may be required prior to approval of the final plat.
   Where sanitary sewer mains of larger capacity than necessary to serve the
subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plat are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the Boad of
Trustees, the Village shall reimburse the subdivider for the difference in cost
between a ten inch (10") pipe and the larger sized pipe, said larger size to be
determined by the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Where the Village Engineer determines that it is feasible and the Board
of Trustees determines that it is desirable, water distribution facilities
shall be installed by the subdivider to serve all properties in the
subdivision. The plans and specifications for such improvements shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and, basically, shall conform
to the standards and specifications set forth in the Village ordinances for
similar construction.
   Where water mains of larger capacity than are necessary to serve the
subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plat are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the Board of
Trustees, the Village shall then take appropriate action to cause the
subdivider to be reimbursed for the difference in cost between an eight inch
(8") pipe and the larger sized pipe, said larger size to be determined by the
Village Board. (Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
   Private wells shall not be permitted on any lot of less than forty two
thousand (42,000) square feet excluding in the computation of the area of said
lots any road easements.
   Nothing in this Section shall preclude the replacement of an existing well,
provided no public water supply is available. (Ord. 86-3-6, 3-19-86)
   In the event the Village incurs legal or engineering expense in connection
with an application to a State agency for authority to obtain additional waters
from Lake Michigan, in order to provide water service to the proposed
subdivision, the subdivider agrees to reimburse the Village for such costs and
expenses incurred, including the cost of the proceedings.
10-5-6: SANITARY SEWER AND WATER MAIN SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer Specifications:
      1.   Pipe Material: Materials permitted for use in sanitary sewers are as
follows:
         a.   Pipe size eight inches (8") through fifteen inches (15"):
            Vitrified clay pipe (VCP) extra strength, in conformance with ASTM
C-700 (latest revision). Joints for bell and spigot pipe shall be in
conformance with ASTM C-425. PVC bell and collar shall be factory applied and
shall conform to ASTM D-1784-69, Class 12454-B.
            PVC pipe with SDR ratio of 35 in conformance with ASTM D-3034
(latest revision) with maximum length of twenty feet (20'). Joint shall be a
rubber ring preset in bell groove. Joint shall withstand internal hydrostatic
pressure of twenty five (25) PSI for one hour without leakage. Pipe shall be
tested in accordance with ASTM D-2412 for pipe stiffness. Minimum stiffness at
five percent (5%) deflection shall be forty six (46).
            Double wall pipe (or truss pipe) constructed of ABS resin
conforming to ASTM D-2680. Voids shall be filled with lightweight concrete.
Joints shall be chemical weld sleeves.
                or
            Asbestos cement pipe, schedule 2400 in conformance with Federal
Specification #S6-P-331A with joint (see above #1).
         b.   Six inch (6") Service Pipe:
            VCP - See above.
            PVC - See above.
            ABS - Same as above, except pipe to be single wall (ASTM D-2751,
SDR = 18)
            AACP - See above.
      2.   Fittings: Fittings and joint material shall be of the same material
as main-line pipe. Saddles in lieu of fittings will not be permitted in new
installations.
         Fittings required to join pipes of dissimilar material shall be
factory fabricated for the specific use anticipated.
      3.   Pipe Design: The pipe shall be designed with due consideration given
to ground conditions encountered and in accordance with the manufacturer's
recommended procedures.
      4.   Manholes: Manholes shall be constructed of prefabricated concrete
sections meeting the requirements of ASTM C-478. Sections shall be joined using
either flexible rubber gaskets or preformed bituminous plastic gaskets. The
manhole bottom shall be precast with the first riser section. Manholes shall
have the pipe cast in place through the manhole or a watertight joint cast in
the manhole wall to receive the pipe. All manhole lids shall be marked
sanitary.
      5.   Service Lines: Service lines (minimum 6" inside diameter) shall be
provided for each building lot and shall be extended from the main line to the
property line during construction. All buildings shall have overhead sewer
systems. Where necessary, riser pipes shall be installed to prevent the service
line from being installed deeper than necessary.
      6.   Testing: Infiltration-exfiltration shall not exceed two hundred
(200) gallon/inch diameter/day/mile of pipe. Testing shall be done by the Lake
County Public Works Department after the service lines have been installed and
capped.
         Testing procedures shall be established by the Village Engineer and
may include television, if deemed necessary.
      7.   Design Capacity of Sewers: Where the sewer to be installed is to
serve an area larger than the subdivision, the sewer shall be designed and
installed to serve the entire service area as designated by the Village
Engineer.
   B.   Water Specifications:
      1.   Pipe Materials: Water mains shall be made of ductile iron with a
cement mortar lining and a minimum working pressure of one hundred fifty (150)
PSI. All fittings shall be cast iron with a cement mortar lining and a working
pressure of two hundred fifty (250) PSI. Water mains will be specified by class
for the appropriate laying depth. All material shall comply with the following
specifications:
 
ASA A21.51 Ductile cast iron (all joint types) centrifugally cast in metal
           molds or sand lined molds for water or other liquids.
ASA A21.4  Cement mortar lining for pipes and fittings.
ASA 21.50  Use to determine wall thickness for ductile cast iron underground
           pipes.
 
   Water main joints may be mechanical (ANSI A21.11) or push on (ANSI A21.11).
Fittings shall be all bell (ANSI A21.10) with mechanical joint.
   Minimum thickness shall be Class 2.
      2.   Design: Water mains shall be not less than six inches (6") in
diameter, and shall be arranged so that the total system is looped in order to
avoid dead-ends where possible. Shut-off valves shall be provided at each
branch main connection and at intervals of no more than one thousand feet
(1,000') apart to permit adequate sectionalization for maintenance purposes.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed at intervals of not
more than four hundred feet (400'). All fire hydrants shall have a six inch
(6") barrel and shall be provided with two (2) two and one-half inch (21/2")
standard hose connections and one four and one-half inch (41/2 ") steamer
connection. Each fire hydrant shall be those designated as the Village standard
with a five and one-half foot (51/2') laying depth. Hydrants shall have
auxiliary valve and valve box.
      4.   Valves and Vaults: Valves shall be non-rising stem gate valves with
operating nut, designed to take full pressure on either face, furnished in full
compliance with AWWA C500. All valves shall open by turning to the left. Valves
shall operate at a working pressure of one hundred fifty (150) pounds per
square inch and a test pressure of three hundred (300) pounds per square inch.
Valves twelve inches (12") and smaller shall be housed in valve vaults with an
internal diameter of forty eight inches (48"); valves over twelve inches (12")
shall be housed in vaults with an internal diameter of sixty inches (60").
Valve vaults shall be precast concrete with cast iron frame and lid. Lids shall
be marked with the word "water". Frames and covers shall be Village standard.
      5.   Water Services: All water services shall be constructed of Type K
copper pipe, having a minimum internal diameter of one inch (1"). Such services
shall be equipped with corporate cock, curb stops and other necessary fittings
in accordance with current Village standards.
      6.   Design Capacity: Where the water main to be installed is to serve an
area larger than the subdivision, the water main shall be designed and
installed to serve the entire service area. Size shall be determined by the
Village Engineer in accordance with overall Village plans.
      7.   Installation of Pipes: The pipe shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's recommended procedures and the procedures established
by the AWWA.
      8.   Testing: Pressure testing of the water system shall be done
hydraulically in accordance with the procedures established by the Village
Engineer.
Bacteriological testing shall be done by the State of Illinois certified
laboratory.
10-5-7: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   Design: Streets, blocks, depths of lots, parks and other public grounds
shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize
natural streams, channels and detention basins, including, wherever possible,
the latter within parks or other public grounds.
   B.   Channel Straightening: Sharply meandering streams or channels may be
partly straightened and minor changes made in other channels, subject to
approval of the Village Engineer, provided:
      1.   The floodway dimensions of the stream or channel are maintained.
      2.   The volume of flood water storage outside the floodway is not
reduced.
   C.   Uppermost Reaches of Drainage Channels: Poorly defined drainage
channels or swales forming the natural drainage system may be located or
eliminated and incorporated into the planned system of storm sewers upon a
showing that the system is adequate and can safely handle the flood water
runoff following the design rainstorms.
   D.   Ditch and Storm Sewers: Ditch and storm sewers shall be so designed
that when the receiving stream is at full flood stage, the ditch or storm sewer
will continue to drain the area it is designed to serve. All storm sewers shall
be designed using the hydraulic gradient to determine capacity.
   E.   Flood Plain Lots: The subdivider shall comply with the rules and
regulations as established by the Village and the Illinois Department of
Transportation regarding the Flood Plan. 1
   F.   Street Pavements Near Streams: The crown of street pavements built
adjoining or near streams, floodwater runoff channels or detention basins shall
not be lower than the established one hundred (100) year high-water elevation.
   G.   Adequate provisions shall be made in all subdivisions for proper
drainage of storm water.
      Storm discharges shall be into a storm sewer or ditch system which shall
carry the storm water to retention areas approved by the Village.
   H.   The rational method (Q = CIA) shall be employed when computing storm
water runoff. The minimum of coefficient or runoff for various types of
developments shall be:
 
Single-family and townhouse areas 0.35 - 0.50
Parks                             0.15 - 0.40
Lots in excess of 1/2 acre        0.20 - 0.35
Commercial and industrial areas   0.50 - 0.85
 
   The intensity "i", for design purposes, shall be based on a ten (10) year
storm frequency for storm sewers and a one hundred (100) year storm frequency
for ditches and a duration equal to the time of concentration at the various
points of design.
   I.   If curb and gutters are provided, curb drainage structures shall be
located at all low points and at other locations as required by the street
gradient and area to be served. In no case shall water flowing in curbs exceed
four hundred feet (400').
      The maximum allowable width of street gutter flow for the design storm is
eight feet (8') measured from the curb face.
   J.   Storm water runoff from subdivided land shall be restricted to no
greater than that from its natural or undeveloped state (maximum 3-year
frequency with runoff coefficient 0.15) and detention space provided for the
excess water, except as provided below:
      A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water runoff is
required for all industrial and commercial subdivisions exceeding two (2) acres
in area; for all residential subdivisions exceeding ten (10) acres in area; and
for all residential subdivisions between two (2) and ten (10) acres which have
an imperviousness of sixty percent (60%) or greater. However, exempted areas
must have an adequate outlet and prove that their runoff will not damage
downstream areas. If the outlet is determined to be inadequate, detention will
be required. The release rate shall not exceed the storm water runoff from the
area in its natural undeveloped state nor be greater than that calculated from
a storm of three (3) year frequency with a runoff coefficient of 0.15, unless
the subdivider can show by his detailed calculations, which are acceptable to
the Village Engineer, that the receiving stream can accept a greater discharge
rate.
   K.   Detention storage will be calculated on the basis of a one hundred
(100) year frequency rainfall for the area. The detention volume required will
be equal to the runoff for a one hundred (100) year frequency rainfall, for any
and all durations, for the subdivision under consideration, less the volume
discharged during the same duration at the allowable release rate.
      Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to bypass through the
development the flow from all upstream areas for a storm of ten (10) year
design frequency assuming that the land is in a fully developed state under
present zoning or zoning proposed under a Village-approved Comprehensive Plan.
The bypass flow rate shall be computed utilizing a runoff coefficient of 0.35.
Allowances will be made for upstream detention when such upstream detention and
release rate has previously been approved by the Village.
   L.   Detention Basin: Dams constructed to form floodwater detention ponds,
basins or lakes shall be designed to provide a temporary floodwater storage
pool with a minimum of twelve inches (12") of free-board at design high water
and shall be provided with outlets which may be set or regulated to detain and
empty slowly the storage pool following periods of runoff according to the
criteria as established in this Title.
      Wet bottom detention areas which do not have a continuous fresh water
flow shall be aerated by mechanical means. Wet bottom detention areas shall
have a minimum static water depth of five feet (5').
      Dry bottom detention basins shall be designed to drain within twenty four
(24) hours, and shall be sodded and graded to a one percent (1.0%) minimum
slope.
   M.   All ditch and storm sewer, drainage structures, and storm water
detention design data shall be submitted with the plans and specifications of
the subdivision for review by the Village Engineer prior to approval by the
Village.
   N.   Pipe materials for use in storm sewers shall be reinforced concrete
pipe of the appropriate class with rubber ring or bituminous compound joint in
accordance with the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,
State of Illinois. Materials permitted for pipe culverts shall be reinforced
concrete pipe or bituminous coated corrugated metal pipe of the appropriate
class or gauge respectively in accordance with the Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, State of Illinois.
   O.   Catch Basins And Inlets: Catch basins and inlets shall be constructed
in accordance with the Village standards. Inlets shall not be used except at
locations approved by the Village Engineer.
   P.   Permits Required: No work shall be undertaken until a permit has been
received from the Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Waterways
for all work under the jurisdiction of that agency.
   Q.   Design Capacity: Where the storm sewer system to be installed is to
serve an area larger than the subdivision, it shall be designed and installed
large enough to serve the entire service area. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-2-2 of this Code.
10-5-8: SITE GRADING PLAN:
The subdivider shall supply, with the plans and specifications, a grading plan
showing elevations on USGS datum of the center line roadway elevations, top of
house foundation elevations, and lot corner elevations for all lots and
buildings within the subdivision. The grading plan shall also show all site
grading necessary for storm water control. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-9: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All utility lines for telephone, electric, cable TV, etc., shall be installed
underground in rear line or front yard easements. All easements must be
obtained and recorded before any installation of improvements can begin.
Utility installation in streets and side yards shall be for transmission lines
only. When cables or conduits are placed within easements or streets, they
shall be placed in such a manner which will not conflict with the Village's
public utilities and improvements. All transformer boxes, junction boxes and
risers shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
No utility lines shall be installed until the easements have been graded to the
finish grades. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-10: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Grass Seeding Or Sod Required: All areas disturbed during construction
shall receive four inches (4") in topsoil and shall be seeded or sodded with a
Kentucky bluegrass mixture or with such other grass mixture as approved by the
Village Engineer. Before the release of the maintenance bond can be recommended
by the Village Engineer, all unpaved areas between the edge of the road
pavement and the right-of-way line must have an adequate mat of grass.
   B.   Trees Required: A minimum of ten (10) trees shall be planted in the
side and back yards of each proposed lot where trees do not exist. Existing
trees shall be preserved, if possible. In addition, trees shall be planted in
the parkway parallel to the roadway at fifty foot (50') intervals. The type of
tree shall be limited to those varieties approved by the Village Forester.
Trees shall be at least two and one-half inches (21/2") in caliper, measured
four feet (4') from the ground.
   C.   Berms And Screen Planting: Berms or protective screen planting may be
recommended by the Plan Commission to secure a reasonable effective physical
barrier between residential properties and nonresidential uses such as highway
or commercial areas to minimize adverse conditions of sight and sound. The
berming or screen planting plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect in
consultation with the Village Forester and shall meet with the approval of the
Plan Commission. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-11: STREET NAME SIGNS:
During the construction of improvements in a subdivided area, the subdivider
shall erect temporary street name signs with lettering at least three inches
(3") high and waterproof to facilitate easy delivery of materials and provide
ample direction for emergency equipment. Permanent signs meeting Village
specifications shall be installed prior to the final acceptance of the
improvements. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-12: GENERAL STANDARDS OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION; PARKING LOT AND SIDEWALK
STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The requirements contained herein and in the referenced
ordinances and standards are considered minimum requirements. The Village
Engineer, in the review of the plans and specifications and the inspection of
the installation of the improvements, may require additional work if, in his
opinion, it is necessary to meet good engineering practices. The Village
Engineer may also incorporate in his review of the plans and specifications, by
reference, certain standards or require the installation of the improvements to
conform to such standards. The following may be used for this purpose:
      1.   State of Illinois, Department of Transportation, Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction (latest revision).
      2.   Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois (latest revision).
      3.   American Water Works Association Standards.
All improvements shall be in accordance with the Village standards and
requirements as given in ordinances and regulations in effect at the time of
the submission of the final plat.
   B.   Parking Lot And Sidewalk Design Requirements: Parking lot design shall
be compatible and efficient in relation to reasonable circulation of traffic
within the parking lot and the adjacent roadways and land uses. Design of
parking lots shall be conducive to the storm water management of the site,
public convenience and safety.
      1.   Design References: All pavements shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the following reference as it applies: Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, Illinois Department of
Transportation, latest edition.
      2.   Pavement Design Minimums: All private parking lots will be built in
accordance with the following minimum standards: The Village Engineer may
require that access drives, loading docks, and similar areas that handle heavy
traffic loads and/or volumes be improved with a greater pavement section than
what is detailed below. The extent of the increase to the pavement section will
be determined by the Village Engineer during the plan review process.
      3.   Subgrade: The subgrade shall be compacted to a minimum ninety five
percent (95%) Standard Proctor (ASTM D698). Fill sections shall be done in
maximum eight inch (8") lifts. Prior to installation of the stone base, a proof
roll will be completed in the presence of the Village Engineer. The proof roll
will be completed using a loaded three-axle dump truck weighing at least twenty
five (25) tons. The tires shall be designed for highway use and will be
properly inflated. The load will be uniformly placed in the dump body. Subgrade
deflection shall be no greater than three-eighths inch (3/8") for any wheel.
Any areas failing to meet this standard shall be either recompacted to meet
this standard or undercut, as directed by the Village Engineer, and replaced
with suitably compacted replacement material and retested. After passing the
proof roll, geotextile fabric described in subsection B4 of this Section shall
be installed.
      4.   Geotextile Fabric: Prior to placement of the stone base, a
geotextile fabric will be installed. This geotextile fabric shall be nonwoven
with a minimum grab tensile warp strength of two hundred fifteen (215) pounds.
A minimum Mullen burst strength of three hundred sixty (360) pounds and a
minimum puncture strength of one hundred fifteen (115) pounds. The fabric shall
have a minimum overlap of eighteen inches (18"). Stone used for the base shall
be dumped onto the fabric and pushed onto the fabric using heavy equipment.
Trucks shall not be permitted to run directly on the fabric.
      5.   Stone Base: The stone base shall be a minimum of ten inches (10")
CA-6 crushed limestone (no crushed concrete). The stone shall be of the proper
gradation and moisture content per Illinois Department of Transportation
standards. The stone shall be compacted to ninety five percent (95%) Standard
Proctor (ASTM D698). Prior to placement of binder, stone shall be proof-rolled
using the same methodology employed to test deflection of the subgrade. The
subdivider shall engage a qualified testing service (approved by the Village
Engineer) to measure compaction and shall promptly forward all test results to
the Village Engineer.
      6.   Asphaltic Paving: Binder course shall be a minimum thickness of two
inches (2"), compacted to ninety three percent (93%) of voidless mass (ASTM
D2041). A vibratory roller is required for breakdown passes and a static roller
is required for finish passes. The subdivider shall engage a qualified testing
service (approved by the Village Engineer) to measure compaction. The testing
service shall be present to establish a proper rolling pattern to maximize
compaction, and the subdivider shall promptly forward all test results to the
Village Engineer.
      7.   Surface Course: The surface course shall be a minimum thickness of
one and one-half inches (11/2") compacted to ninety three percent (93%) of
voidless mass (ASTM D2041). The surface course will be installed after all
major construction has been completed on the site. The binder course shall be
evaluated and any areas that have deteriorated shall be removed and replaced
prior to installation of surface asphalt. The subdivider shall again engage a
qualified testing service (approved by the Village Engineer) to measure
compaction. The testing service shall be present to establish a proper rolling
pattern to maximize compaction. The subdivider shall promptly forward all test
results to the Village Engineer.
      8.   Parking Lot Slopes: The maximum grades in parking lots shall be five
percent (5%), unless approved by the Village Engineer. The minimum pavement
slopes shall be 1.2%. The minimum carrying curb and gutter slope shall be no
less 0.5%.
      9.   Storm Structures: The maximum inlet depth shall be no greater than
three and one-half feet (3.5') in depth. All storm sewer flow shall pass
through a catch basin prior to release to the appropriate detention facility.
The sump in the catch basin shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") in
depth.
      10.   Sidewalk: All sidewalks shall be a minimum five inches (5") in
thickness on four inches (4") CA-6 crushed limestone base (no crushed
concrete). The concrete strength shall be four thousand (4,000) psi at twenty
eight (28) days, with a maximum four inch (4") slump, and air entrainment of
five to eight percent (5–8%). (Ord. 99-3-7, 3-16-1999)
10-5-13: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Inspection: All improvements shall be subject to inspection by the
Village Engineer both during the course of construction and after construction
is complete. The Village Engineer shall have authority over materials of
construction, methods of construction and workmanship to ensure compliance with
working drawings and specifications. The subdivider shall provide for
reasonable tests and proof of quality of materials as requested by the Village
Engineer. Upon due cause, the Village Engineer may require that work be
suspended and due cause shall include weather conditions, questionable
materials or construction, methods of construction, workmanship or nonadherence
to the approved plans and specifications.
   B.   Subdivider Responsibility: Approval by the Village Engineer or absence
of inspection shall in no way relieve the subdivider of full responsibility for
adherence by his contractors to specifications and working drawings nor for
high standards of materials, methods and workmanship.
   C.   Approval Not Acceptance: Approval by the Village Engineer shall not be
deemed acceptance of the improvement by the Village. Acceptance shall be only
by resolution by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Notification: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or his
contractor to notify the Village Engineer when work is to be started and to
request assignment of an inspector. The initial notification that a particular
improvement is to be started shall be in writing and shall reach the Village
Engineer forty eight (48) hours in advance of the date that inspection is to
begin. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-14: ACCEPTANCE:
Acceptance of an inspection by the Board of Trustees shall be only by
resolution upon written recommendation of the Engineer and Attorney for the
Village. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-15: COST OF OVERSIZE IMPROVEMENTS:
Whenever the subdivider shall be required to install oversize improvements or
off-site improvements providing benefit to others or to the public, the Village
may enter into a reimbursement agreement providing for repayment to the
subdivider as the improvements are used by the benefited property or
properties. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-16: CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION FEES:
The subdivider shall reimburse the Village for engineering fees and for
inspection of subdivision improvements during their course of construction. The
Board of Trustees shall obtain an estimate from the Village Engineer of the
cost of any such engineering and inspection expenses and require a deposit from
the subdivider in the amount of such estimate before incurring the engineering
and inspection fees involved. Inspection fees are due monthly during the
installation of such improvements. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
10-5-17: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
   A.   General: It is recognized that excessive quantities of soil may erode
from areas that are undergoing development. This soil erosion causes the
following problems:
      1.   Decreases safety on roadways by reducing traction of vehicles;
      2.   Necessitates costly repairs of gulleys and embankments;
      3.   Obstructs storm and sanitary sewers;
      4.   Pollutes and silts waterways;
      5.   Destroys fish and other aquatic life;
      6.   Creates additional costs for removal from roads, sewers and
waterways;
      7.   Reduces the capacity of storm sewers and waterways which increases
the possibility and severity of flooding.
It is the intent of this Section to provide minimum standards and procedures to
protect persons, property and the environment from damage resulting from
excessive erosion.
   B.   Procedures: The following general procedures shall apply to any earth
excavation related to the general development of the subdivision and the
development of each lot:
      1.   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other cover
shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
      2.   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps
shall be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from
land undergoing development.
      3.   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by soil and surface alterations during and after development.
      4.   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed as
soon as practicable. (Ord. 272, 3-20-1978)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION APPENDIX; FORMS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Appendix And Forms
10-6-1: APPENDIX AND FORMS:
The appendix and forms relating to subdivision regulations are set out on the
following pages of this Chapter.
APPENDIX I.
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE*
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
This is to certify that
                                                                            as
(owner) (trustee)  of the land described hereon has caused the same to be
surveyed, subdivided, and platted as shown on the plat hereon drawn, for the
uses and purposes therein set forth as allowed and provided by statute and the
                                                                                              
as (owner) (trustee) does hereby acknowledge said plat and adopts the same
under the style and title of   .
            (subdivision name)
            (owner) (trustee)
      By:      
            Title
Dated this                     day of                         , 19   .
*Corporate owner's certificate should be accompanied by a corporate form of
acknowledgement.
NOTARY CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
I,                                                             , a Notary
Public in and for said County, in the State aforesaid, do hereby certify that
                                                                                               ,
personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the
foregoing instrument as such owners, appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that they signed the annexed plat as their own free and voluntary
act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this                       day of
            , 19    .
            Notary Public
VILLAGE BOARD CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
Plat approved by the Village of Riverwoods, Illinois this    
day of                                , 19    .
            President
    Attest:         
            Village Clerk
            Village of Riverwoods
COUNTY RECORDER'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
This instrument No.                                     was filed for record in
the Recorder's Office of                                                    
County, Illinois on the                                           day of
                                        , 19    , at                       
o'clock     .M. in Book of Plats, Page    .
            Lake County Recorder
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
This is to certify that I,    ,
Registered Illinois Land Surveyor No.                                        ,
have surveyed, subdivided, and platted for the owners thereof the following
described property:
I further certify that iron stakes have been set at all lot corners, points of
curve and points of tangent, and that monuments have been set as required; and
that the plat hereon drawn correctly represents said survey and subdivision.
I further certify that the above described property is within the corporate
boundary of the Village of Riverwoods which has adopted an official plan. I
further certify that the above described property (is) (is not) within 500 feet
of a water course or surface drain serving an area of 640 acres or more.
Given under my hand and seal at
                                                 , Illinois,
this                  day of                                             ,
19    .
            Surveyor
            (affix seal)
PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
This is to certify that the members of the Plan Commission of the Village of
Riverwoods reviewed and approved the above plat.
Dated this                  day of                            , 19    .
            Chairman
COUNTY CLERK CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
This is to certify that I,   ,
County Clerk for the County and State aforesaid, find no redeemable tax sales,
unpaid taxes or unpaid current taxes against any of the real estate included in
the above plat.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with
the annexed plat.
Given under my hand and seal
in                                                     , Illinois this
                    day of                                        , 19    .
            County Clerk
CERTIFICATES AS TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      SS
COUNTY OF   )
I,                                                                      ,
Village Collector of the Village of Riverwoods do hereby certify that there are
no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special assessments or any
deferred installments thereof that have been apportioned against the land
included in the plat.
Dated at Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois, this
                                   day of
                                                    , 19    .
            Village Collector
VILLAGE ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
Approved this                               day
of                                   , A.D. 19    by the Village Engineer of
the Village of Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois.
         Village Engineer
ATTORNEY'S CERTIFICATE
Approved this                               day
of                                   , A.D. 19     by the Village Attorney of
the Village of Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois.
         Village Attorney
EASEMENT PROVISIONS
An easement is hereby reserved and granted over and under platted easement
areas to Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Commonwealth Edison Company, North
Shore Gas Company, and the Village of Riverwoods, Lake County, Illinois, and
their respective successors and assigns, to install, lay, construct, renew,
operate and maintain conduits, cables, wires, sewers, surfaces and subsurface
drainage, and watermains, underground, will all necessary manholes, water
valves and other equipment for the purpose of serving the said real estate with
telephone, communications, electric, sewer, water service and drainage, also
there is hereby granted the right to enter upon the said real estate at all
times to install, lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain within the said
real estate said conduits, cables, wires, manholes, water valves, surface and
subsurface drainage, and other equipment; and the right of ingress and egress
is hereby granted over, upon and through the said real estate for emergency
vehicles of any and all types, for any purpose whatever. No permanent building
shall hereafter be placed on the said easement, as determined, but the same may
be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and such other purposes that then and
later do not unreasonably interfere with the uses or the rights herein granted.
APPENDIX II.
STANDARD ESCROW AGREEMENT
This Agreement made and entered into this                        day of
               , A.D. 19     by and between     
            (name)
of   
      (address)
the sole beneficiary of Trust No.                     of
the                                   
                (bank)
                                                       dated
                            hereinafter
sometimes referred to as "Owner", the VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS, a Municipal
Corporation of the State of Illinois, hereinafter sometimes referred to as
"Village",   ,
         (bank)
an Illinois banking corporation, sometimes hereinafter referred to as
"escrowee", and DONALD MANHARD ASSOCIATES, INC. OF 730 Waukegan Road,
Deerfield, Illinois, sometimes hereinafter referred to as "Village Engineer".
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, owner is the sole beneficiary of   
             (Trust No. - Bank)
                                                   dated,   ,
and the said    
under said Trust Agreement is the owner of the legal title to the following
described parcel of real property located in the Village and described as
follows, and sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "subdivision", to-wit:
(DESCRIPTION)
WHEREAS, the aforesaid                                                      
has applied          (trust)
on behalf of the Owner for approval of a plat of subdivision of said land to be
known
as                                                                           
and
WHEREAS, the Village of RIVERWOODS Subdivision Ordinance as amended requires as
a condition of such approval and recording of such plat, among other things,
the guaranteeing of installation of certain public improvements in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by and on file with the Village
Engineer, or Village Clerk, and in accordance with the Ordinances of said
Village; and,
WHEREAS, the Owner has submitted to said Village and said Village has approved
plans and specifications entitled: "   "
prepared by    
         (engineer)
drawn                                           ,approved by
   (date)
for the construction of required public improvements as described in the
aforesaid plans and specifications, sometimes hereinafter called the
improvements, and,
WHEREAS, the Owner has requested Village to waive the furnishing of a bond as
required by its said Subdivision Ordinance, as amended, and to accept in lieu
thereof a deposit of                                                         
to be
            (amount)
deposited in an escrow in the manner hereinafter directed; and,
WHEREAS, streets, sewer and water are required in said subdivision; and,
WHEREAS, Village is willing to enter into this Agreement and to grant approval
of the said plat upon the condition that the deposit be made in the manner
herein provided shall be used, prior to the termination of the escrow, as
herein provided solely to pay:
   (1) The actual costs of construction of the aforesaid street, sewer, and
   water improvements;
            (2)   The engineering and inspection fees of Village;
            (3)   The costs of maintaining said improvements and making repairs
to existing improvements and property caused by damage done to the same in the
course of making the improvements described herein for a period of two years
after the date of acceptance of said improvements by Village, sometimes
hereinafter referred to as the two year maintenance period; and
            (4)   Any customary expense of the subdivider in meeting any
requirements of the Ordinances of Village pertaining to the aforesaid
Subdivision, in the event that the Owner fails to meet said requirements and,
owner further agrees that sufficient funds shall be maintained at all times on
deposit with escrowee for such purposes; and,
WHEREAS, the Owner, in consideration of the waiver of a Subdivision bond and
the approval to be made of such plat of Subdivision by the Village, agrees to:
            (1)   Make and pay for the public improvements described in the
aforesaid plan and specifications;
            (2)   Pay for all engineering and inspection fees incurred by the
Village as a result of the construction of improvements and development of the
Subdivision and whether incurred prior to, on or after the date of this
Agreement;
            (3)   Pay for the costs of maintenance of the improvements and
making repairs to existing improvements and property caused by damage done to
the same in the course of making the improvements described herein during the
two-year maintenance period; and
            (4)   Pay all customary expense of the subdivider in meeting any
requirements of the Ordinances of Village pertaining to the aforesaid
Subdivision, all of the foregoing, except (3) above, within two (2) years from
the date hereof, and from the said escrow deposit to the extent of the monies
therein and otherwise by Owner as may be necessary.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein
contained, and other good and valuable considerations, the parties hereto do
covenant and agree each with the other as follows:
            (1)   That Owner will deposit with the escrowee the sum of   
to be held by the escrowee, subject to the terms and provisions hereof, and
that no other agreement with regard to the holding or disbursement of said
funds shall be in effect unless it is approved in writing by Owner, filed by
Owner with the Clerk of Village, approved in writing by Village, and a copy
thereof certified by the Clerk of Village delivered to the escrowee, and
attached to this Agreement.
            (2)   Escrowee shall hold said sum on deposit to be disbursed from
time to time upon payout orders issued by Village Engineer or Village in
payment for work as follows:
               (a) The cost of installation of the aforesaid street, sewer and
improvements;
               (b) Payment for all costs of engineering and inspection fees
incurred by the Village as a result of the construction of the improvements in
and development of the Subdivision and whether incurred prior to, on, or after
the date of this agreement;
               (c) Payment of the cost of maintenance of said improvements and
repairs to existing improvements and property for damage caused in making said
improvements during the two year maintenance period; and
               (d) Payment of all customary expense of the subdivider in
meeting any requirements of the Ordinances of Village pertaining to the
aforesaid Subdivision.
Village or escrowee shall not be required to investigate the propriety of any
payout orders other than as they deem necessary in their own interest, if said
payout orders are in writing executed by the Village Engineer, and escrowee
shall not be required to investigate the propriety of any payout orders other
than it deems necessary in its own interests if said payout orders are in
writing executed by Village.
            (3)   That if, at any time before the construction of all required
improvements has been completed, the balance remaining on deposit with escrowee
is not sufficient, in the sole judgment of Village, to cover all costs as
enumerated in paragraph 2 above, or, if by reason of any order, decree or writ
of any court, or for any other reason, the money deposited in said escrow shall
be withheld, diminished or otherwise unavailable for the purposes expressed
herein for which said deposit was made, Owner agrees to cause to be deposited
with escrowee such additional reasonable sum of money as shall be required by
Village to complete the construction of the improvements and the performance of
this Agreement or Owner shall provide such other guarantee of said performances
as may be required by Village.
            (4)   The parties further agree that upon the acceptance by the
President and Board of Trustees of Village of the said public improvements as
above referred to, and upon payment of items (a) and (b) as specified in
Paragraph 2 of this Agreement, Village agrees that any balance remaining in
said escrow deposit shall be refunded to Owner except an amount not to exceed
$                   which shall be withheld for a period of two (2) years to
pay items (c) and (d) specified in Paragraph 2 of this Agreement, to the extent
that said costs have not been previously paid by Owner, and such sums shall be
paid from said escrow deposit for such purposes on the direction of the Village
to the escrowee. Upon expiration of the two (2) year maintenance period
escrowee shall upon receipt of notice in writing from the Village Engineer or
Village that all requirements of the Ordinances of Village applicable to the
aforesaid Subdivision have been met and the costs of maintaining the
improvements during the two (2) year maintenance period have been paid, pay
over to Owner any balance remaining in said escrow deposit.
            (5)   Village agrees that it will approve such plat of Subdivision
when, but not before, Owner has made the foregoing escrow deposit.
            (6)   The provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the
benefit of the Owner, Village, Village Engineer and Escrowee, and nothing
contained herein shall inure to the benefit of any third person to be deemed to
obligate the Owner, Village, Village Engineer, or Escrowee, except to each
other.
            (7)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein provided
Escrowee shall not disburse any of the escrow funds to Village Engineer except
upon payout orders issued by Village.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have set their respective hands and seals
the day and year first above written.
Accepted and deposit received this
                  day of                           19    .
ESCROWEE         VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS,
                a Municipal Corporation
BY:               BY:    
                     President
Attest             Attest    
   Clerk
   DONALD MANHARD ASSOCIATES
               BY:    
State of Illinois   )
County of Cook   )
   I,                                                                , being
sworn under oath
state as follows:
      1.   That the affiant is the sole beneficiary of Trust No.    
of the                                                , dated   .
      2.   That said Trustee is the sole legal title holder of the real estate
described in the foregoing Agreement.
      3.   This affidavit is made to induce the Village of RIVERWOODS, Lake
County, Illinois to enter into the foregoing Agreement.
FORM 1.
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
      1.   Name of Subdivision    
      2.   Location    
      3.   Subdivider's Name    
      4.   Subdivider's Address    
                                  
   I,                                                                     the
subdivider,
               Subdivider's name
hereby apply for approval of the preliminary plan of the proposed
                                                                            
Subdivision. I certify
      Name of Subdivision
that all exhibits presented herewith are true and valid and all information is
correct to the best of my knowledge.
                  Subdivider's Signature
                                                      , 19   
                  date
FORM 2.
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECK LIST
Name of Subdivision:    
Name of Subdivider:    
Address of Subdivider:    
                         
Telephone No.:    
Date of Submission:    
            (To be filled in by Village Clerk)
NOTES:
      1.      To properly execute this check list, the Subdivider or his agent
shall:
         a.   Insert the required information.
         b.   Denote compliance with various requirements by initialing spaces
where applicable.
         c.   Denote those items which the subdivider considers "not
applicable" to this particular subdivision by the abbreviation "N.A.".
2.   Submit eighteen (18) copies each of the application with Preliminary Plat
and supporting documents attached, except as noted herein, and the filing fee.
   A. Application
   B. Filing Fee
   C. Review Fee
   D. Preliminary Plan on 24" x 36" sheet or sheets indicating:
      1. Name of Subdivision
      2. Legal Description
      3. Vicinity Map
      4. Name and address of each owner, owner of record
       Name and address of subdivider
       Name and address of designer preparing plan
      5. Date
      6. North Point
      7. Boundary lines of proposed subdivision
       Acreage of subdivision
      8. All platted right-of-ways and easements in subdivision
       Location of all structures and access roads within subdivision
      9.   Boundary lines and ownership and zoning of adjacent parcels of land
      10. Existing zoning of proposed subdivision
      11. Existing and proposed topography
      12. Layout of proposed streets and proposed names
      13. Lots to be dedicated for public use or special use
      14. Lots showing dimensions, approximate area and numbered
      15. Building set-back lines
      16. Public utility easements
      17. Existing sanitary sewers, storm sewers, septics, etc.
      18.   Existing feature of land - permanent buildings, wooded areas,
natural and topographic features
      19. Approval Certificate
   E.   Supplemental Information
      1. Zoning Statement
      2. Boundary Survey
      3. Annexation Statement
      4. Soil and Water Conservation District Report
      5. Erosion Control Statement
      6. Proposed Covenants and Building Restrictions
      7. Letters from Review Agencies
      8. Preliminary Engineering Plans
   F. Additional Information, if required
      1. Soils Report
      2. Demographic Study
      3. Traffic Study
      4. Letter from State or County Highway Department
                  Completed by:      
                        Name
                        Address
FORM 3.
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
      1.   Name of Subdivision    
      2.   Location    
      3.   Subdivider's Name    
      4.   Subdivider's Address    
                          
   I,                                                              the
subdivider hereby apply for final plat approval of the aforementioned proposed
subdivision. The final plat and exhibits are true copies of the approved
preliminary plat and all information supplied is true and correct to the best
of my knowledge.
                     Subdivider's Signature
                                              , 19   
                     Date
Valid when filed within 12 months of the preliminary approval, unless an
extension has been granted, and when all required exhibits are received.
FORM 4.
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
CHECK LIST FOR FINAL PLAT
Name of Subdivision:    
Date of Submission:    
NOTE: To properly execute this check list, the Subdivider or his Engineer
shall:
      1.   Insert the required information.
      2.   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his initials
in all spaces where applicable.
      3.   Denote those items which the Subdivider considers "not applicable"
to this particular subdivision by the abbreviation "N.A.".
         A.   Plat has been submitted within twelve (12) months after the
approval of the Preliminary Plat.
         B.   Eighteen (18) copies of the Final Plat and one original drawing.
Final           Plat to include:
            1.   Name of Subdivision
            2.   Legal description of property
            3.   Owners of record of property
            4.   Scale
            5.   Date
            6.   North Point
            7.   Boundary of plat with angular and linear dimensions
            8.   Street names, location and width, including crosswalks
            9.   Distance to Street lines or official monuments
      10.   Township and municipal boundaries
         Section corners and lines tied to Subdivision
      11.   Radii, internal angles, points of curvatures, tangent lengths, and
       bearings and lengths of all arcs.
      12.   Public service, drainage and utility easements shown and
dimensioned
      13.   Lots numbered, dimensioned with area and addresses
      14.   Monuments shown
      15.   Lots dedicated or reserved
      16.   Building set back lines
      17.   Protective covenants
      18.   Jurisdictional authorities
      19.   Required certificates and signatures
      20.   Need to include Notary Certificate
      21.   President and Board of Trustees Certificate approving and accepting
the plat attested by the Village Clerk
      22.   Recorder's Certificate certifying that the Final Plat is recorded
in the County of Lake
      23.   Surveyor's Certificate to the effect that he has surveyed and
subdivided the property and the plat represents a true and accurate
representation of said survey and subdivision
      24.   Plan Commission Certificate approving the plat
      25.   Lake County Clerk Certificate to the effect that there are no taxes
against any land included in the plat.
      26.   Special Assessment
      27.   Village Engineer's Certificate to certify that all of the
improvements meet the standards of all Village ordinances, certifies that the
Final Plat conforms with the Preliminary Plan and includes the proper
easements.
      28.   Village Attorney's Certificate certifies that the improvement
security is in the proper form and amount, checks the Final Plat and all
accompanying documents
      29.   Certificate of easements for all public utilities and such other
disclosures
      30.   Such other certificates as may be required by Illinois State
Statutes.
   C.   Supplementary Documents
      1.   Plans and specifications for improvements; cost estimates
      2.   Letter of approval from State or County Highway Department
      3.   IEPA permit applications
      4.   Current title commitment
      5.   Subdivision Improvement Deposit
      6.   Casualty Insurance
      7.   Indemnity Insurance
      8.   Fire Insurance
      9.   Land Dedication - Parks and Public Areas
      10.   School District Agreement
   D.   Fees
      1.   Acreage Fee
      2.   Review Fees
      3.   Legal Fees
      4.   Engineering and Inspection Fees
      5.   Other fees as required
          Completed by:            
                     Name
                     Address
                     Date
FORM 5.
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS
FINAL INSPECTION CHECK LIST
Name of Subdivision:                                          Date:   
NOTE:
The following documents, where applicable, must be on file with the Village
Clerk prior to any action of acceptance by the Village Board of Trustees. The
Village Clerk must initial the space provided denoting compliance. Items
considered not applicable by the subdivider shall be marked "NA" and initialed
by the subdivider.
      1.   Approved preliminary plan
      2.   Plat of survey of property of preliminary plan
      3.   Title commitment
      4.   Annexation plat
      5.   Zoning proceedings
      6.   Topographic map
      7.   Sepia of recorded plat and 6 prints
      8.   Copy of recorded covenants
      9.   Guarantee bond - letter approving form from Village Attorney
      10.   Maintenance bond
      11.   Soils report
      12.   Copies of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permits for
water and sewer
      13.   Copies of Division of Waterways permit
      14.   Copies of Illinois Department of Transportation permit and release
letter. Copies of County or Township permits with release letter
      15.   Design date - streets
      16.   Traffic study
      17.   School demographic study and all school district communications
      18.   Statement on payment of review and inspection fees
      19.   Letter or letters from Village Engineer approving improvements
      20.   Statement from Fire Chief that hydrants have been inspected
      21.   As-built plans - sepia and 2 prints. Show: Locations of sewer and
water services, valve locations, and all public utilities
      22.   House Bill 1042 requirements fulfilled
      23.   Receipts of all filing, platting and connection fees that have been
paid
Subdivider's Signature:    
FORM 6.
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS
   This declaration made and entered into by    
                                                                                ,
for convenience
hereinafter referred to as "Declarant."
   WHEREAS, the Declarant is the legal title holder of the following described
real estate:
(Insert legal description)
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Declarant declares as follows:
   1. Declarant agrees, on behalf of Declarant, its successors and assigns, and
on behalf of all future property owners, their executors, administrators,
successors and assigns, that any areas designated on the plat of said
subdivision for ingress and egress and any roadways constructed thereupon shall
be considered a private road easement for the benefit of all lot owners in
                                            Subdivision and that area
designated on the plat of said subdivision for ingress and egress and any
roadway constructed thereon shall be maintained solely at the expense of said
owners and their successors and not at the expense of the Village of
Riverwoods.
   2. That said roadway and area shall be maintained by the owners of said Lots
                     through                    , inclusive by said lot owners
paying  (percentage)  of the cost of said maintenance for each lot owned by
said owners.
   3. The amount referred to herein as the cost of maintenance in Paragraph 2
hereof shall be determined by the amount of money actually spent for
maintenance on said roadway and area not exceeding, however, the lesser of the
sum of $                per year per lot or the amount voted to be spent by a
majority or owners of said lots, the owner of any lot being entitled to one
vote for each lot owned by said owners.
   4. In the event that the owner or owners of any lot do not pay their share
of the maintenance provided for herein, the owners of the remaining lots may
sign and record a lien for the share of the maintenance actually spent under
Paragraph 2 hereof and not so paid and may foreclose on said lien for the share
of the maintenance actually spent in the manner provided by law in case of
mechanic's liens. As to a subsequent purchaser, said lien shall be effective
when recorded.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   
has caused its                                      to be affixed hereto, etc.
   Dated this                      day of                                    
19    .
                  (Signature and jurat)
(Ord. 272, 3-20-78)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
VILLAGE OF RIVERWOODS WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority And Purpose
11-1-2: Enforcement
11-1-3: Inspection And Access, Authorized Personnel
11-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers
granted to the village by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/
11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2, 5/11-111.1-1 (1992). The administration and
enforcement of this chapter shall be performed by the village within its
jurisdiction.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable rules
and regulations for development in order to:
      1.   Meet the requirements of the rivers, lakes and streams act, 615
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g effective November 18, 1987;
      2.   Prevent additional harm due to periodic flooding including loss of
life and property and threats and inconvenience to public health, safety and
welfare;
      3.   Assure that new development does not increase flood and drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
      4.   Create no new financial burden on the taxpayer for flood control
projects, repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and for
flood rescue and relief operations;
      5.   Protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
      6.   Protect buildings and improvements to buildings from flood damage to
the greatest extent possible;
      7.   Conserve the natural hydrologic, hydraulic, water quality and other
beneficial functions of flood prone areas, regulatory floodplains and wetlands;
      8.   Prevent additional disruption of the economy and governmental
services due to stormwater and flood drainage;
      9.   Maintain eligibility for the village in the national flood insurance
program by equaling or exceeding its requirements and thus make federally
subsidized flood insurance available at reduced rates;
      10.   Comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended. (Ord. 94-8-9, 8-23-
1994)
   C.   Definitions: In this Chapter, the term "Lake County Watershed
Development Ordinance" means the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance,
as most recently on October 13, 2020, by the County Board of Lake County, which
is hereby adopted by reference and is in full force and effect within the
Village of Riverwoods and is found in its own compilation. (Ord. 15-12-23, 12-
15-2015; amd. Ord. 20-12-22, 12-15-2020)
11-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village engineer shall be the enforcement officer of this chapter. One of
the primary duties of the enforcement officer shall be to review all watershed
development applications and issue permits that are in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The enforcement officer shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Included as appendix E of
the Lake County watershed development ordinance, adopted herein by reference,
is a delineation of the requirements and duties accepted by the village and its
village engineer. (Ord. 94-8-9, 8-23-1994)
11-1-3: INSPECTION AND ACCESS, AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL:
Representatives of the stormwater commission or the village are authorized to
enter upon any land or water to inspect development activity. (Ord. 94-8-9, 8-
23-1994)
TITLE 12
SIGNS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Conflict With Special Use Permits Or Annexation Agreements
12-1-4: General Definition Of Sign
12-1-5: Further Definitions
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the RIVERWOODS SIGN
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulation of the location, size and placement of signs is necessary to
permit essential information to be conveyed to public officials and citizens
without confusion or distortion or undue difficulty, to encourage the general
attractiveness of the community, and protect property values therein.
Accordingly, it is the intent of this title to establish regulations governing
the display of signs which will:
   A.   Maintain and enhance the village's appearance by regulating the design,
character, location, number, type, quality of materials, size, illumination and
maintenance of signs.
   B.   Serve the village's interests in maintaining and enhancing its visual
appeal for residents and visitors by preventing the degradation of visual
quality which can result from excessive and poorly designed, located or
maintained signage.
   C.   Generally limit commercial signage to on site locations in order to
protect the aesthetic environment from the visual clutter associated with the
unrestricted proliferation of signs, while providing channels of communication
to the public.
   D.   Establish sign sizes in relationship to the scale of the lot and
building on which the sign is to be placed or to which it pertains.
   E.   Minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and
private property, including streets, roads and highways.
   F.   Protect the investments in property and lifestyle quality made by
persons who choose to live, work or do business in the village.
   G.   Limit the size and number of signs to levels that reasonably allow for
the identification of a residential, public or commercial location and the
nature of any such commercial business.
   H.   Protect and improve pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety by
balancing the need for signs that facilitate the safe and smooth flow of
traffic (e.g., directional signs and on site signs) without an excess of
signage which may distract drivers or overload their capacity to quickly
receive information.
   I.   Reduce hazardous situations, confusion and visual clutter caused by the
proliferation, placement, illumination, animation and excessive height, area
and bulk of signs which compete for the attention of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
   J.   Respect and protect the right of free speech by sign display, while
reasonably regulating the structural, locational and other noncommunicative
aspects of signs, generally for the public health, safety, welfare and
specifically to serve the public interests in community aesthetics and traffic
and pedestrian safety.
   K.   Encourage signs that are appropriate to the zoning district in which
they are located and consistent with the permitted uses of the subject
property.
   L.   Avoid unnecessary and time consuming approval requirements for certain
minor or temporary signs that do not require review for compliance with the
village's building and electrical codes while limiting the size and number of
such signs so as to minimize visual clutter.
   M.   Enable the fair, consistent and efficient enforcement of the sign
regulations of the village.
   N.   Regulate signs in a constitutional manner, which is content neutral as
to noncommercial signs and viewpoint neutral as to commercial signs. All
administrative interpretations and discretion is to be exercised in light of
this policy and consistent with the purposes and intent stated in this section.
(Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-1-3: CONFLICT WITH SPECIAL USE PERMITS OR ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS:
If any provision or requirement of this title is found to be in conflict with
any signage provision or requirement of any special use permit or annexation
agreement approved for any property, then the particular terms and provisions
of the special use permit or annexation agreement shall govern such property,
but only to the extent necessary to resolve such conflict. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-
2-2008)
12-1-4: GENERAL DEFINITION OF SIGN:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the word "sign" means any identification,
display, device, notice, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, or other
thing which is designated, intended, or used to advertise or inform, including
every ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated sign, pylon or pole sign,
marquee, awning, canopy, street clock, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, or insignia used to convey information,
advertise or promote the interest of any person, business or other entity and
which is visible from any public place or is located on private property and
exposed to the public. Mailboxes identifying the name and address of an owner
or occupant are not deemed signs. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-1-5: FURTHER DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, terms already defined in section
9-2-3 of the Riverwoods zoning ordinance shall continue to have the same
meanings when used in this title, and the following additional definitions
shall apply in construing the meanings of the regulations imposed by this
title:
AREA OF COPY: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter composed of
squares or rectangles which encloses the extreme limits of the advertising
message, announcement or decoration of a sign.
AREA OF SIGN: Restrictions as to the maximum square footage of the face of a
sign refers to the area of the sign within a perimeter, which forms the outside
shape, including any part of the display, but excluding the necessary supports
or uprights on which the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than
one section or module, all areas will be totaled, including spaces between each
module. In the case of a double sided sign, the gross area shall be the square
footage of the largest exposed face of the sign. An irregular shaped sign area
will be computed using the actual sign face surface. In the case of an open
wall sign, the area of the sign is the area of copy.
AWNING: A retractable, rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from
the wall of a building and is intended to provide shade and shelter from the
weather. An awning may have an on premises sign as part of the fabric, which
shall be considered either as a projecting or wall sign.
BANNER: A sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame, possessing
characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to paper, plastic
or fabric of any kind, secured or mounted so as to allow movement of the sign
caused by movement of the atmosphere.
CHANGING SIGN: A sign such as an electronic or electric controlled time and
temperature sign, message center or reader board, whether electronic, electric
or manual, where copy changes, but in any event not more frequently than six
(6) times per minute.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary ground sign erected on a lot during the period
that a village building permit or site development permit has been applied for
or issued, indicating only the names of the owner, general contractor,
subcontractors, architect and engineer's name, hours of work, telephone number,
and safety information as required by village ordinances.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign which serves solely to designate location or
direction.
FLAG: Any fabric containing distinctive patterns or symbols (as in a national
or state flag, or as in a flag for the promotion of an on premises business or
other nonresidential use) mounted on a pole.
GROUND SIGN: A sign mounted on freestanding pylons, pipes, piers, posts, or
other self-supporting structures not attached to a building.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the grade at the adjacent
street right of way line nearest to where the sign is located to the highest
point of the sign.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign containing only the name and address of the
occupant or business establishment.
ILLUMINATED OR ELECTRICAL SIGN: Any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, or outlines illuminated by electrical lights, luminous tubes, or any
other means of internal or external illumination.
MANSARD ROOF: An architectural designation of a roof/wall design which exhibits
a vertical or nearly vertical face. For the purposes of this title, the
vertical or nearly vertical face shall be considered a wall.
MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A rooflike structure projecting from a wall and erected to
provide shelter from the weather or architectural enhancement.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign which advertises goods, products, facilities or
services not necessarily on the premises where the sign is located or which
directs persons to a premises at a different location under different ownership
from where the sign is located.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign identifying or advertising a business, person,
activity, goods, products or services located on a premises where the sign is
installed and maintained.
OPEN WALL SIGN: A wall sign that consists of formed or shaped letters,
numerals, or trademarks that are attached to a wall and between which the wall
is exposed.
PARAPET WALL: That portion of a wall which projects above the roofline
intersecting it.
PENNANT: Any plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not containing a
message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wiring or string, usually in a
series, designed to move in the wind.
PERMANENT: A permanent sign is a sign affixed to a building or structure or to
the ground and made of materials such as wood, stone, metal, polycarbonate
panels and the like, and is not movable without tools or construction.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign, normally double faced, which projects or is
suspended at a lateral angle of fifteen degrees (15°) or more in relation to
the facade of a building and may be attached to a structure, building facade,
canopy or marquee.
PUBLIC SIGN: Any sign for control of traffic and other regulatory purposes,
street signs, warning signs, railroad crossing signs and other signs of public
service companies indicating danger and aids to service or safety which are
erected by, or at the order of, a public officer or employee in the performance
of official duties.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected, constructed and maintained upon or over the roof
or top of the wall, wall tower or turret or any building with the principal
support on the roof structure.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign that can be easily transported or relocated, usually
constructed of plastic, paper, cardboard, cloth, or other like material.
Examples of temporary ground signs include signs with noncommercial messages
such as announcing support for candidates or political referenda, signs with
commercial messages calling attention to a special, unique or limited activity,
service, product or sale of limited duration, as well as signs showing a
property is for sale or lease or that an open house or garage sale will be
held.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached or applied flush to the exterior wall of any
building or on a canopy or marquee with the face at a lateral angle of less
than fifteen degrees (15°) to the plane of the building wall.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign painted on the interior of a window or constructed of
paper, cloth, or other like material and attached to the interior side of a
window in order to direct attention of persons outside the building to a sale
of merchandise or a change in the status of the business. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-
2008)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: General Requirements
12-2-2: Administration By Director Of Community Services
12-2-3: Permit Issuance And Denial
12-2-4: Appeal From Permit Denial
12-2-5: Enforcement; Penalty
12-2-6: Prohibited Signs
12-2-7: Signs Not Requiring A Permit
12-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required: Except as provided in this title, no person shall
erect, alter or relocate any sign within the village without first obtaining a
sign permit from the building department and making payment of the required
fee. No permit shall be required for cleaning and other normal maintenance or
repair of a sign structure so long as the sign or sign structure is not
modified in any way. The repainting or refacing of an existing sign, if
performed in a professional manner, shall not constitute a modification as long
as the sign area remains unchanged.
   B.   Application: Application for a permit shall be made to the village upon
a form provided by the building department as may be required to assure
compliance with all appropriate ordinances and regulations of the village,
including, but not by way of limitation:
      1.   Legible drawings with description clearly showing location of the
sign which is the subject of the permit and all other existing signs whose
construction and installation require permits, when such signs are on the same
premises or zoning lot;
      2.   Drawings showing the dimensions, colors, construction supports,
sizes, electrical wiring and components, materials of the sign and method of
attachment and character or structural members to which attachment is to be
made. The design, quality, materials, and loading shall conform to the
requirements of the village. If required by the village, engineering data shall
be supplied on plans by a licensed architect or structural engineer.
   C.   Fees: Application for permits shall be filed with the village, together
with a permit fee specified in the fee schedule. The schedule of fees for sign
permits shall be based upon the size of the sign.
   D.   Inspection: The person erecting, altering or relocating a sign shall
notify the building department upon completion of the work for which permits
are required. All ground signs shall be subject to a footing inspection and all
signs to a final electrical inspection by the village. Said inspection will
verify proper location and compliance with all approved specifications and
conditions of the permit.
   E.   Construction: All signs shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable provisions of the village building code. The village shall impose,
as a condition for the issuance of a permit for temporary signs, such
requirements as to the material, manner of construction and method of erection
of a sign as are reasonably necessary to ensure the safety and convenience of
the public.
   F.   Maintenance; Enforcement: Every sign in the village, including, but not
limited to, those signs for which permits or for which no permits or permit
fees are required, shall be maintained in good structural condition at all
times. All signs, including those exempted, shall be kept neatly painted,
including all metal parts and supports. The village shall inspect and have the
authority to order the painting, repair, alteration or removal of signs which
are unauthorized or become dilapidated or are abandoned, or which constitute a
physical hazard to the public safety.
   G.   Obsolete Signs: Any sign that advertises a business, event or product
that no longer exists or any sign pylons that no longer support a sign shall be
taken down and removed by the owner or agent, within ten (10) days after
written notification from the village. Upon failure to comply with such notice
within the time specified, the village shall cause the removal of such sign
from the property owner, including all legal fees and court costs incurred by
the village.
   H.   Removal Of Unsafe Signs: If any sign is found to be unsafe or insecure,
or is a hazard to the public, the village shall give written notice to the
owner or operator of the sign. If he fails to remove or alter the sign so as to
comply with the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after such
notice, the village may remove the sign (or make alterations necessary to make
it safe) at the expense of the property owner, including all legal fees and
court costs incurred by the village. The village may cause any sign that is an
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and with notice.
(Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-2: ADMINISTRATION BY DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY SERVICES:
The director of community services (as defined in section
8-2-1 of this code) shall administer the provisions of this title. He shall:
   A.   Maintain permanent and current records of sign permit applications and
matters related thereto.
   B.   Conduct inspections of signs, buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance to the terms of this title.
   C.   Issue permits when authorized by this title.
   D.   Receive and file copies of all applications for appeals, variations and
other matters on which the sign board of appeals is required to pass under this
title.
   E.   Provide such assistance as may be required by the sign board of appeals
in the exercise of its duties. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-3: PERMIT ISSUANCE AND DENIAL:
The director of community services shall issue a permit for the erection,
structural alteration, enlargement or relocation of a sign within the village
within ten (10) business days after the permit application is properly made and
all appropriate fees have been paid, provided the sign complies with the
appropriate ordinances of the village. If the permit is denied by the director
of community services, he shall give written notice of the denial to the
applicant, together with a brief written statement of the reasons for the
denial. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-4: APPEAL FROM PERMIT DENIAL:
   A.   There is hereby created the sign board of appeals, the membership of
which shall consist of those members appointed to the zoning board of appeals.
It shall be the duty of such board to review and interpret the provisions of
this title in such manner as to carry out the intent and purpose thereof.
   B.   The director of community services shall act as secretary to the sign
board of appeals and he shall transmit to the board all petitions, plans, and
other materials constituting the record in the matter of the appeal.
   C.   The director of community services shall comply with and enforce the
decision of the sign board of appeals.
   D.   The failure of the director of community services to either formally
grant or deny a permit within fifteen (15) days of the date an application is
filed shall be cause for appeal to the sign board of appeals.
   E.   In cases of extraordinary hardship to an appellant, the board may
either grant or deny the appeal or grant the appeal with modification. (Ord.
08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-5: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this title
shall be and hereby is declared to be unlawful. Any person violating any
provision of this title shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day's continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   Any sign erected, altered, moved or structurally modified without a
permit when required or altered with a permit but in violation of the
provisions of this title shall be removed at the owner's expense or brought
into compliance within thirty (30) days of written notification by the director
of community services. If the violation is failure to obtain a permit, a permit
fee shall be required and the permit fee shall be doubled, in the event that
the owner does not remove or bring into compliance, the director of community
services may order removal, the expenses of which will be assessed to the
property on which the noncomplying sign is located. The village shall have the
right to maintain an action for injunctive relief to prevent or remove a
violation of this title. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-6: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are hereby expressly prohibited for erection, construction,
repair, alteration or relocation within the village:
   A.   No sign, advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning shall be
erected or maintained in such a manner as to interfere with, obstruct the view
of, or be confused with, any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Accordingly, no sign, advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning shall
make use of the words "stop", "go", "look", "slow", "danger" or any similar
word, phrase, symbol or character, if used in a manner that could be mistaken
for or confused with, any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
   B.   No sign, advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning shall be
erected or maintained in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or
as to distract the attention of the driver of any vehicle by reason of
positions, shapes or colors thereof.
   C.   No fluttering or wind actuated sign, bunting, banners, streamers, or
pennants shall be erected or maintained except as permitted in subsection
12-4-3D of this title.
   D.   No sign shall block any required exit, fire escape, door opening or
window, nor obstruct any opening required for ventilation.
   E.   No sign or any part thereof, except a public sign, shall be in the
public right of way, except pursuant to a permit authorized by the village
board of trustees.
   F.   No sign shall be painted or pasted or similarly applied directly on the
surface of any exterior building walls, roofs or fences.
   G.   Illuminated signs shall be shaded so as not to shine or reflect light
on adjacent properties or violate any provisions of the Riverwoods residential
outdoor lighting ordinance.
   H.   No flashing signs, animated signs, signs with moving, scintillating,
blinking or traveling lights of over fifteen (15) watts per lamp, or signs
creating the illusion of movement shall be permitted in any zoning district,
whether located within or without a building, if plainly visible from the
outside. A changing sign whereon the current time and/or temperature are
indicated by intermittent lighting shall not be deemed to be a prohibited sign.
   I.   Roof signs are prohibited.
   J.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display on any sign or other
advertising structure, any matter in writing or in picture which, considered as
a whole, predominately appeals to prurient interest and goes substantially
beyond customary limits of candor in description or representation of such
matters, and advertising matter which is untruthful.
   K.   Portable or wheeled signs are prohibited, except in the automobile
service stations zoning district.
   L.   Any motor vehicle parked on a street right of way or on private
property so as to be seen from a street right of way or on public property,
which has attached thereto or located thereon any sign or advertising device
for the basic purpose of providing advertisement of products or directing
people to a business activity located on the same or nearby property or any
other premises.
   M.   Off premises signs are prohibited, except for preexisting uses that
have been authorized by the terms of an annexation agreement or when
specifically authorized by this title. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-2-7: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT:
The following signs are exempted from the permit requirements of this title:
   A.   Signs allowed without permit pursuant to chapters 3 and 4 of this
title.
   B.   Noncommercial messages may be contained in any previously authorized
sign, subject to the same standards and total maximum allowances per site or
building of each sign type specified in this title. No permit is required for a
permanent noncommercial sign which replaces a permanent commercial sign
provided that the permanent commercial sign has previously been approved. For
purposes of this title, all noncommercial speech messages are deemed to be "on
premises", regardless of location.
   C.   Village or other governmental signs, including street signs installed
by the village.
   D.   Memorial signs and tablets displayed on private property, but not
visible to the public.
   E.   Government flags and insignia and signs erected by a governmental body,
or under the direction of such a body, and bearing no commercial advertising,
such as traffic signals, railroad crossing signs, safety signs, and signs
identifying public schools, churches, parks, libraries and playgrounds.
   F.   Government flags flown by any person on their premises.
   G.   Legal notices.
   H.   Holiday decorations which are clearly incidental and customary and
commonly associated with any national, local or religious holiday; provided
that such signs are not erected or maintained more than thirty (30) days prior
to the date of the holiday and shall be removed within ten (10) days after the
termination thereof. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: General Requirements
12-3-2: Exceptions For Certain Special Uses And Legal, Nonconforming Uses
12-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The only signs allowed in residential districts are signs that are not
prohibited under this title, that are exempted from permit requirements under
section
12-2-7 of this title, that are allowed by section
12-3-2 of this chapter, and the following signs, which shall be allowed on each
property in a residential district without a sign permit:
   A.   One stationary nameplate or open wall sign, not exceeding four (4)
square feet in area, affixed to the principal dwelling on the property.
   B.   One permanent ground sign. Such sign shall not exceed six (6) square
feet in area or four feet (4') in height and shall not be located in any front
yards, rear yards or side yards.
   C.   Temporary ground signs. Each sign permitted by this subsection shall be
stationary, unilluminated, and nonluminescent, shall not exceed six (6) square
feet in area or four feet (4') in height, and the area of such signs in the
aggregate shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
   D.   So long as the property is being offered for sale or lease, one
temporary ground sign shall be allowed, except that two (2) such signs shall be
allowed on a corner lot, one facing each street. Each sign permitted by this
subsection shall be stationary, unilluminated, and nonluminescent, shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in area or six feet (6') in height, shall be located
no closer than eight feet (8') to the nearest street and shall be installed
entirely within the property to which the sign applies, as near as possible to
a line beginning at the center point of the front lot line and extending
perpendicular to such front lot line.
   E.   If the owner is hosting an open house or conducting a garage sale, then
a temporary ground sign(s) shall be allowed to indicate that a real estate open
house or garage sale is being conducted. Each sign permitted by this subsection
shall be stationary, unilluminated, and nonluminescent, shall not exceed six
(6) square feet in area or six feet (6') in height, and shall be located no
closer than eight feet (8') to the nearest street and shall be installed
entirely within the property to which the sign applies, as near as possible to
a line beginning at the center point of the front lot line and extending
perpendicular to such front lot line. Such signs are only permitted on
Saturdays and Wednesdays in the case of open house signs, and Saturdays and
Sundays in the case of garage sale signs. All of such signs shall be removed by
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on each day when otherwise permitted. Not more than one
temporary directional sign shall be permitted per property, except that two (2)
such signs may be installed on a corner lot, one facing each street.
   F.   Whenever a sign is allowed under subsections D and E of this section,
one temporary, off premises ground sign, meeting the size and height
requirements under subsections D and E of this section, may be installed on
another property (with permission of the owner of such property) to indicate
the location of the property that is actually being offered for sale or lease
when such property being offered for sale or lease is not accessible except
over private streets that are substandard in width. The off premises ground
sign allowed by this subsection must be installed next to any adjacent street,
but set back behind the ditch line of such street or at a minimum distance from
the street as may be specified by the director of community services to ensure
traffic safety. No owner may authorize more than two (2) temporary off premises
ground signs under this subsection to be installed at the same time on such
owner's property.
   G.   So long as construction on the property is to be or has been authorized
by a building or site development permit, construction signs shall be
permitted. Such signs shall, in the aggregate, not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet in area or eight feet (8') in height, shall be installed entirely within
the property to which the sign applies and shall comply with village ordinances
relating to safe construction site management. No such sign shall be erected
more than ten (10) days before the permit is issued. Such sign shall be removed
within one week after completion of the construction as determined by the
director of community services. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-3-2: EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN SPECIAL USES AND LEGAL, NONCONFORMING USES:
Certain properties in the village have been granted special uses or have the
right to continue legal, nonconforming uses, and since such uses were
authorized prior to the adoption of this title, different regulations are
appropriate in these cases. With respect to any property in the R-1 42,000
square foot residential district for which: a) a special use has been granted
prior to the date of adoption of this title, or b) a legal, nonconforming use
has been established prior to the adoption of this title, ground signs and
directional signs shall be permitted while such special uses or legal
nonconforming uses remain in effect, subject to the following limitations:
   A.   No more than one ground sign shall be permitted on a zoning lot.
   B.   No ground sign shall have a total height greater than fifteen feet
(15') above the mean grade level of the property on property having frontage on
Deerfield Road, nor higher than four feet (4') above the mean grade level of
the property on property having frontage solely on Saunders Road.
   C.   The area of a ground sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet for property having frontage on Deerfield Road, nor twenty two (22) square
feet for property having frontage solely on Saunders Road.
   D.   All parts of the ground sign, including its supports, shall be entirely
within the property line of the premises upon which it is located. Ground signs
in areas of vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be set at a height to allow
safe passage.
   E.   Directional signs shall be subject to the requirements of subsection
12-4-2F of this title, except that when the permitted area of ground signs on
such property does not exceed the maximum area, as specified in this section,
then one directional sign identifying each entrance and exit may measure up to
eight feet (8') in area, but in no event shall the total area of directional
signs and ground signs exceed the maximum area permitted for the ground sign
alone, as specified in this section. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
CHAPTER 4
ON PREMISES SIGNS
SECTION:
12-4-1: General Provisions
12-4-2: Permanent On Premises Signs
12-4-3: Temporary On Premises Signs
12-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Regulations Applicable: The regulations imposed in this chapter are
applicable to the B-1 neighborhood business district, the automobile service
stations district, the office and research development district one and the
office and research compatible district. Signs exempted from permit
requirements under section
12-2-7 of this title are allowed in these districts. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the standards imposed by the terms of any special use permit or
annexation agreement for property in these districts shall control.
   B.   No Permanent Window Signs: Signs painted, posted or displayed by any
other means in a window are not permitted, except for signs indicating the
identity and address of the occupants, open/closed window signs not exceeding
two (2) square feet and temporary signs approved in accordance with subsection
12-4-3B of this chapter. Included within this prohibition are all advertising
placards, banners, pennants, names, insignias, trademarks or other descriptive
or advertising material which would be affixed to and maintained upon the glass
panes and supports of windows or glass doors. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
12-4-2: PERMANENT ON PREMISES SIGNS:
Provided a permit is issued, permanent on premises signs may be erected and
maintained in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Marquee And Canopy Signs: Signs located on a marquee or canopy shall be
affixed to the surface thereof, and shall not extend vertically or horizontally
beyond the limits of said marquee or canopy. Marquees or canopies shall have
headroom of not less than eight feet (8').
   B.   Awning Signs: Signs located on awnings shall be affixed to the surface
thereof, and shall indicate only the name, address and telephone number of the
establishment on the premises. No sign shall exceed eight (8) square feet in
area. Further, no such sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond the
limit of said awning. Awnings shall have headroom of not less than eight feet
(8').
   C.   Wall And Fascia Signs: No more than one wall sign on each wall fronting
on a public street, public right of way or easement, except for identification
signs, not to exceed four (4) square feet; and except that multiple tenant
buildings shall be permitted to have one wall sign on the ground floor for each
business or professional use in the building. The maximum area in square feet
shall not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of the building facing
the front yard to a total maximum area of one hundred (100) square feet. No
wall sign shall project beyond the top and edges of the wall to which it is
affixed.
      Wall signs shall not exceed ten feet (10') in vertical dimension and
shall be subject to the village's approval for location and arrangement. No
wall sign shall extend in height above the top of an exterior wall, except, in
the case of a mansard, mansard type roof or parapet wall, the height of the
sign attached to such mansard/parapet shall not extend above the top of such
mansard/parapet, nor shall it extend more than three feet (3') in height above
the roofline immediately behind the mansard/parapet at the point to which the
sign is to be attached. The maximum area of any wall sign shall not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet.
      Buildings with multiple street frontage shall be permitted to have one
wall sign on the secondary street frontage, provided this sign shall not exceed
one-half (1/2) the sign area permitted on the principal frontage, and shall not
exceed one square foot for each linear foot of the side of building to which
said secondary sign is affixed.
   D.   A billboard shall be considered a specialized case of an off premises
ground sign. No billboards shall be permitted anywhere in the village, except
that any billboard existing on April 7, 1998, which is located in a business
district on vacant property containing at least five (5) acres shall be a
permitted ground sign for purposes of this section, and such billboard shall be
permitted notwithstanding that the area of such billboard may measure up to
three hundred fifty (350) square feet (but not more than 350 square feet) and
the height of the billboard may measure up to thirty feet (30') (but not more
than 30 feet) above the mean grade level of the property. If the property on
which a billboard is located is subsequently subdivided, the remaining property
on which the billboard is located must nevertheless remain a vacant lot
containing at least five (5) acres. All ground signs used for any purpose shall
be set back fifteen feet (15') from any lot line; provided, however, the
distance of a ground sign to the lot line may be less than fifteen (15) feet in
the case of a sign that must be relocated due to a widening of the right-of-way
of Deerfield Road, to the extent that the existing improvements on the lot
preclude observing the fifteen (15) foot setback.
   E.   Projection: Projecting signs suspended from any building may project
four feet (4') from the face of the building but shall not project into the
public way or building setback area; and the bottom of such signs shall not be
less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the sidewalk.
   F.   Directional Or Instructional Ground Signs: Directional or instructional
ground signs which are located entirely on the property to which they pertain
and do not exceed three (3) square feet in area shall be permitted if the
director of community services determines that they are useful for traffic
safety. Examples include signs identifying parking lot entrances and exits,
restrooms, public telephones, and those of similar nature, but such signs are
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Two (2) such signs designating parking area entrances or exits are
permitted for each such entrance or exit.
      2.   One such sign is permitted to designate the condition of use or
identity of any parking area, stall or space.
      3.   No such sign shall be higher than four feet (4') above the
established average grading of the parking area.
      4.   No such sign shall project beyond the property line.
   G.   Signs Accessory To Automobile Service Stations: Automobile service
stations are hereby declared to be an activity which requires certain
additional regulations regarding signs.
      1.   Matter appearing on gasoline pumps regulating safety and use shall
not require sign permits for the purposes of this title.
      2.   In addition to all other permitted signs, there may be one sign, not
larger than six (6) square feet above each pump area stating whether the area
is a "self-service" or a "full service" area and the current price per gallon
of the gasoline sold at the station. No element of the cost to the customer of
the gasoline shall be omitted from the statement of the price per gallon. (Ord.
08-12-14, 12-2-2008; amd. Ord. 25-03-04, 3-4-2025)
12-4-3: TEMPORARY ON PREMISES SIGNS:
Provided a permit is issued, temporary on premises signs may be erected and
maintained in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   During Listing For Sale: So long as the property is being offered for
sale or lease, one temporary, on premises ground sign, which shall be a
stationary, nonluminescent sign, shall be permitted on each frontage of a
zoning lot, not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet for property of one acre or
less. Signs located on a zoning lot in excess of one acre may have a maximum
size of thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   B.   During Promotional Events Or Sales: If a special promotional sale or
event is occurring, temporary window sign(s) may be authorized. The total area
of such window sign(s) shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet and, in
any event, shall not occupy more than thirty three and one-third percent (331/
3%) of the gross window area. No window sign shall be erected or maintained
except pursuant to a permit issued by the village. A window sign permit shall
not be authorized for any owner, occupant, tenant or user for more than sixty
(60) days in any calendar year.
   C.   During Construction: So long as construction on the property is to be
or has been authorized by a building or site development permit, a construction
sign shall be permitted. Such sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet
in area nor shall any sign exceed eight feet (8') in height. Such signs shall
be installed entirely within the property to which the sign applies and shall
comply with village ordinances relating to safe construction site management.
On multifrontage lots, two (2) such signs, each one facing a different street
shall be permitted. No such sign shall be erected more than ten (10) days
before the permit is issued. Such signs shall be removed within one week after
completion of the construction as determined by the director of community
services.
   D.   Permitted Buntings, Banners, Pennants And Flags: Incidental and
accessory to temporary event signs, buntings, banners, pennants and flags may
be erected and maintained pursuant to a permit issued by the village and
subject to the following provisions:
      1.   They shall be permitted in nonresidential districts only in
accordance with the same provisions regulating the height and location of
permitted signs in the applicable zoning district.
      2.   They may be displayed for not more than sixty (60) days in any
calendar year.
      3.   They shall not be erected or maintained in such a location or manner
as may endanger the public safety or interfere with or obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular travel or create a traffic safety problem. (Ord. 08-12-14, 12-2-2008)
TITLE 13: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CHAPTER 1
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose
13-1-2: Authority
13-1-3: Definitions
13-1-4: Covered Developments
13-1-5: Percentage Of Affordable Units Required
13-1-6: Affordable Housing Compliance Plan And Covenants
13-1-7: Period Of Enforceability
13-1-8: Construction Requirements
13-1-9: Fee Waivers
13-1-10: Annual Reporting
13-1-11: Relief From Requirements
13-1-12:Affordable Housing Guidelines
 
13-1-13: Penalty
13-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and welfare
by encouraging high quality housing throughout the community sufficient to meet
the needs of all Riverwoods residents. While this chapter provides specific
alternatives to the production of on-site affordable units, the intent and
preference of this chapter is to provide affordable units that are constructed
on the site of the covered development. This chapter shall be known, cited, and
referred to as the Riverwoods Affordable Housing Ordinance. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-
18-2025)
13-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted under authority vested in the village by and pursuant
to its home rule powers and other applicable laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted to have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section. To the extent that words or phrases
used in this chapter are not defined in this section, but such words or phrases
are defined in the Riverwoods Zoning Ordinance (Title 9 of this code), such
words or phrases shall be deemed to have the meanings set forth in the
Riverwoods Zoning Ordinance.
AFFORDABLE   A trust fund to be established by the village with the central purpose of
HOUSING      providing financial resources to address the affordable housing needs of eligible
TRUST FUND:  households in the village and preserving and producing affordable housing.
             Decent, safe, sanitary and appropriate housing that low-income or moderate-income
             households, as applicable, can own or rent without having to devote more than
             approximately thirty percent (30%) of their gross income to monthly housing
AFFORDABLE   expenses, as calculated annually by the Illinois development housing authority
HOUSING:     (by adjusting for number of bedrooms, when establishing the maximum affordable
             rent for rental units, and by adjusting for number of persons in the household,
             when establishing the maximum affordable purchase price for owner occupied
             units).
AFFORDABLE   A dwelling unit that meets the affordable housing criteria for low-income or
UNIT:        moderate-income households as required in this chapter.
AREA MEDIAN  The median income level for the Chicago metro area, as established and defined in
INCOME:      the annual schedule published by the secretary of housing and urban development,
             and adjusted for household size.
CONVERSION:  A change in a residential or mixed-use rental development to individual-owner
             residential condominium units.
             Any development project in the village that is required to provide affordable
COVERED      units under the provisions of this chapter. Projects at one location undertaken
DEVELOPMENT: in phases, stages or otherwise developed in distinct parts shall be considered a
             single covered development.
             Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
DEVELOPER:   association, joint venture, or any entity or combination of entities, including
             any successors or assigns, but not including any governmental entity that
             develops dwelling units in a covered development.
             A.   For rental housing, rent and utilities; and
HOUSING      B.   For home ownership, principal and interest of any mortgages placed on the
EXPENSES:    unit, property taxes, condominium or homeowner's association fees, if applicable,
             and insurance.
             Households meeting the following income limits as calculated annually by the
             Illinois housing development authority:
LOW-INCOME   A.   For rental units, households that have incomes that do not exceed sixty
HOUSEHOLDS:  percent (60%) of the area median income for the applicable unit size.
             B.   For owner occupied units, households that have incomes that do not exceed
             eighty percent (80%) of the area median income for the applicable household size;
             and
MARKET RATE  Dwelling units that are not required to be affordable units under the
UNITS:       requirements of this chapter.
             Households meeting the following income limits, as calculated annually by the
             Illinois housing development authority:
MODERATE-    A.   For rental dwelling units, households that have incomes that do not exceed
INCOME       eighty percent (80%) of the area median income for the applicable unit size.
HOUSEHOLDS:  B.   For owner occupied dwelling units, households earning between eighty percent
             (80%) and one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the area median income for the
             applicable household size, or such higher income limit as may be established for
             a local, county, state or federal housing program.
MULTIFAMILY  Dwelling units that are located in a building containing more than one (1)
DWELLING     dwelling unit, such as units that are within townhomes, condominiums, duplexes,
UNITS:       or other types of multiple dwellings.
MULTIFAMILY
FOR SALE     A covered development that offers multifamily dwelling units for sale.
DEVELOPMENT:
MULTIFAMILY  A covered development that offers multifamily dwelling units for lease as
RENTAL       rentals.
DEVELOPMENT:
PRIVATELY    A covered development with market rate units that does not receive public
FUNDED       financial assistance.
DEVELOPMENT:
PUBLICLY     A covered development that received some form of public financial assistance,
ASSISTED     which may include TIF funding or funding from the village's affordable housing
DEVELOPMENT: trust fund. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
 
13-1-4 COVERED DEVELOPMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to residential developments of five
(5) or more dwelling units (excluding any single family dwellings) located in a
planned development overlay district as follows:
   A.   A development consisting of new residential construction or new mixed-
use construction with a residential component.
   B.   A development consisting of the renovation or reconstruction of over
fifty percent (50%) of the total square footage of an existing multiple-family
residential structure and that increases the number of residential units from
the number of units in the original structure.
   C.   A development that will change the use of an existing building in whole
or in part from nonresidential to residential.
   D.   A development that includes the conversion of rental property to
condominium property. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-5: PERCENTAGE OF AFFORDABLE UNITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Multifamily Rental. Of the total number of dwelling units in a
multifamily rental development, seven and a half percent (7.5%) shall be
affordable units, of which five percent (5%) must be actual, onsite units.
Approximately fifty percent (50%) of the onsite units shall be affordable
housing for low-income households and fifty percent (50%) of the on-site units
shall be affordable housing for moderate-income households, with such
adjustments as may be authorized by the village board in the approval of the
planned development. Up to two and a half percent (2.5%) of the total unit
requirement may be satisfied by payment of a cash fee-in-lieu payment. The fee-
in-lieu payment for each required affordable unit not provided onsite shall be
in the amount set forth from time to time in the village fee schedule.
   B.   Multifamily For Sale. Of the total number of dwelling units in a
multifamily for sale development, ten percent (10%) shall be affordable units,
of which five percent (5%) must be actual, onsite units that provide affordable
housing for low-income or moderate-income households, with such adjustments as
may be authorized by the village board in the approval of the planned
development. Up to five percent (5%) of the total unit requirement may be
satisfied by payment of a cash fee-in-lieu payment. The fee-in-lieu payment for
each required affordable unit not provided onsite shall be in the amount set
forth from time to time in the village fee schedule.
   C.   Publicly Assisted Developments. The minimum percentage of affordable
units for rental units or owner occupied units in a publicly assisted
development shall be governed by the approval terms of the planned development
and applicable public financing agreements.
   D.   Calculation. To calculate the number of affordable housing units
required in a covered development, the total number of proposed units shall be
multiplied by the applicable percentage required by this chapter. When the
application of the applicable percentage for the number of affordable units
results in a fraction, a fraction of 0.5 or more shall be rounded up, and a
fraction less than 0.5 shall be rounded down. If the cash payment is in lieu of
providing one (1) or more but not all of the required affordable units, the
calculation shall be prorated as appropriate.
   E.   Fee In Lieu Payment. The cash fee in lieu payment required of
developers pursuant to this chapter shall be based on an estimate of the amount
that would supply a meaningful subsidy to the cost of providing an affordable
unit in the Chicago metro area, as determined from time to time by the village
board, as set forth in the annual fee schedule of the village. As condition of
receiving a building permit for the development, the developer shall make the
required cash payment to the village for deposit into the affordable housing
trust fund, which shall be used for the purpose of providing financial
resources to address affordable housing needs by promoting, preserving and
producing long-term affordable housing; providing housing-related services; or
providing support for not-for-profit organizations that actively address the
affordable housing needs of residents within the community, as first priority,
and secondarily the housing needs of residents of surrounding areas. The
developer applicant shall execute all documentation relating to such payment as
the village president in consultation with the village attorney deems to be
appropriate.
   F.   Dedication Of Land. In lieu of making a cash payment, the developer may
propose a dedication of land of a size and location within the village
appropriate for development of affordable housing as determined by the village
board, which dedication shall be made to the village or, as the village's
direction, to a qualified not-for-profit housing agency or developer. (Ord. 25-
02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-6: AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLIANCE PLAN AND COVENANTS:
A developer shall provide an affordable housing compliance plan documenting the
developer's intended compliance with the requirements of this chapter as part
of the developer's application for planned development approval of a covered
development.
   A.   The plan shall specifically contain, at a minimum, the following
information regarding the covered development:
      1.   A general description of the development, including whether the
development will contain rental units or individually owned units, or both;
      2.   The total number of market rate units and affordable housing units
in the development;
      3.   The number of bedrooms in each market rate unit and each affordable
housing unit;
      4.   The gross square footage of each market rate unit and each
affordable housing unit;
      5.   Site plans showing the location of each market rate unit and each
affordable housing unit within the covered development project, and/or floor
plans showing the location of each market rate unit and each affordable housing
unit within a multiple-family residential structure;
      6.   The pricing for each market rate unit and each affordable housing
unit;
      7.   The phasing and construction schedule for each market rate unit and
each affordable housing unit;
      8.   Documentation and plans regarding the exterior and interior
appearances, materials and finishes of the development and each of its
individual units;
   B.   In addition to any fine permitted or required to be imposed hereunder,
the village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an actual or threatened
violation of this chapter, the corporate authorities finding that the village
and the health, safety and welfare of its residents will be irreparably harmed
by the failure to observe the regulations in this chapter, and that the
imposition of a fine alone is an inadequate remedy for such violations. The
village may prosecute violations of this chapter filing a case directly in the
appropriate court or by referring the offense to the administrative
adjudication system for hearing and resolution in accordance with this code.
   C.   Prior to issuance of a building permit for any covered development, the
developer shall enter into a development agreement with the village or, at the
village's discretion, a qualified not-for-profit housing entity dedicated to
the provision of affordable housing, regarding the specific requirements and
restrictions regarding affordable housing and the covered development project.
The developer shall execute all documents deemed necessary or appropriate,
including restrictive covenants and other related instruments, to ensure the
continued affordability of the affordable units in accordance with this
chapter. Developers may also enter into agreements with a not-for-profit
housing entity to provide the long-term management, including leasing of the
affordable housing units to low-or moderate-income households, and maintenance
of the affordable units by the entity. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-7: PERIOD OF AFFORDABILITY:
For onsite affordable units, the minimum period of affordability shall be
thirty (30) years, commencing on the date which is six (6) months after the
certificate of occupancy covering such units is issued by the village. The
approval of a planned development may specify a restriction period in
perpetuity or as long as permissible by law, which extended term shall be
embodied in the documents effectuating the restrictive covenants. (Ord. 25-02-
03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-8: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
The following are the requirements for affordable units in covered
developments:
   A.   Affordable units shall be dispersed among the market rate units.
   B.   Affordable units shall be constructed concurrent with the development
of market rate units, and construction phasing of affordable units shall not be
delayed unless authorized by the village and only after it has been
demonstrated by the developer to the satisfaction of the village that a delay
is necessary in order to account for the different financing and funding
requirements, economies of scale or infrastructure needs applicable to
development of the market rate units and affordable units.
   C.   The exterior appearance of the affordable units shall be visually
compatible with the market rate dwelling units.
   D.   Affordable units may differ from market rate units with regard to
interior finishes, provided that:
      1.   Interior features, amenities, and structural elements of affordable
units shall be contractor grade or higher. For purposes of this section,
amenities shall include, without limitation, storage and parking.
      2.   The affordable units shall have the same improvements related to
energy efficiency, including mechanical equipment and plumbing, insulation,
windows, and heating and cooling systems, as the market rate units.
      3.   The interior gross area for the affordable shall be no less than the
lesser of seventy-five percent (75%) of the gross floor area (exclusive of
utility rooms and garages) of market rate units with comparable number of
bedrooms or the minimum size requirements required by applicable codes.
      4.   The bedroom mix of affordable units shall be in equal proportion to
the bedroom mix of the market rate units within the covered development unless
otherwise approved by the village. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-9: FEE WAIVERS:
A developer that fully complies with providing actual affordable units in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter shall, upon written request,
receive from the village a waiver of all of the otherwise applicable
application fees and building permit fees imposed by the village, but only with
regard to the affordable units in the covered development. The fees charged for
the total development shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect this waiver
of fees for the affordable units, but in no instance will more than fifty
percent (50%) of the permit fees be waived. Under no circumstances will any
out-of-pocket fees or impact fees be waived. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-10: ANNUAL REPORTING:
If a covered development includes onsite affordable units, the owner of the
covered development shall submit an annual compliance report to the Village no
later than March 1st of each year for the prior year. This report shall
describe the status of each affordable unit in detail including, but not
limited to, changes in tenancy, turnovers, and income certifications for new
tenants. The reports shall also include annual recertification of all tenants
renting affordable units. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-11: RELIEF FROM REQUIREMENTS:
The village board may grant relief from the strict application of the standards
set forth in this chapter upon finding that due to specific and unique
circumstances which are set forth in writing, undue hardship would be caused by
the strict application of the standards and requirements set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
13-1-12: AFFORDABLE HOUSING GUIDELINES:
The finance director of the village may issue administrative guidelines to
assist in the effective implementation of this chapter. Such guidelines may
contain the affordable housing application requirements for each covered
development, the maximum income eligibility for tenants of affordable rental
units and owner occupied units, the maximum rents by unit sizes for affordable
units in multifamily rental developments, the procedures for income
recertification and any rental preferences for occupants. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-
2025)
13-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each such violation.
   B.   In addition to any fine permitted or required to be imposed hereunder,
the village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an actual or threatened
violation of this chapter, and may also seek mandatory injunctive relief to
require the owner or occupant of any dwelling unit whose occupancy is
restricted pursuant to this chapter to bring such lot into compliance with this
chapter, whenever the village board finds that the imposition of a fine alone
is an inadequate remedy for such violations. The village may prosecute
violations of this chapter filing a case directly in the appropriate court or
by referring the offense to the administrative adjudication system for hearing
and resolution in accordance with this code. (Ord. 25-02-03, 2-18-2025)
 
